#Chapter 11
##Grand Officers Rank, Designation, Title, Qualifications, Term and Succession of Office
###REG. 11-1 OFFICERS.
The elective and appointive officers of the Grand Lodge, their ranks, designations, and titles shall be as follows:
* The elective grand officers, each of whom shall be installed in his own proper person and not by proxy, shall be as follows: [12-6; 12-9].
RANK DESIGNATION TITLE
* Grand Master - Most Worshipful
* Deputy Grand Master - Right Worshipful
* Senior Grand Warden - Right Worshipful
* Senior Grand Warden - Right Worshipful
* Junior Grand Warden - Right Worshipful
* Grand Treasurer - Right Worshipful
* Grand Secretary - Right Worshipful
* The appointive grand officers who shall be installed either in person or by proxy are as follows: [12-6; 17-1; 17-2; 17-4].
* Senior Grand Deacon - Worshipful
* Junior Grand Deacon - Worshipful
* Grand Marshal - Worshipful
* Grand Stewards - Worshipful
* Grand Tyler - Worshipful
* The appointive grand officers who shall not be installed are as follows: [17-5; 17-6; 17-7; 17-8; 17-9.1].
* Grand Chaplain - Worshipful
* Grand Historian - Worshipful
* Grand Lecturer - Worshipful
* Grand Orator - Worshipful
* Judge Advocate - Worshipful
###REG. 11-2 DUAL GRAND OFFICE HOLDING PROHIBITED.
No brother shall hold more than one Grand Lodge office named in Regulation 11-1 at the same time. [11-11].
###REG. 11-3 PAST GRAND ELECTIVE OFFICERS.
A past grand elective officer, regardless of residence, so long as he remains a member in good standing in a subordinate lodge under this Grand Jurisdiction, shall retain the title of such elective office which he held in this Grand Lodge a full term. [3-1].
###REG. 11-4 DISTRICT DEPUTY GRAND MASTERS.
District Deputy Grand Masters are not officers of the Grand Lodge and need not be installed. They are the personal representatives of the Grand Master in their respective districts.
* Their title is Worshipful, due to the fact that they shall be Masters or Past Masters to qualify.
* The honorary title of Past District Deputy Grand Master may be granted by the Grand Lodge by a majority affirmative vote upon proposal by the Grand Master, to a District Deputy Grand Master who shall have served one full year as a District Deputy Grand Master. [3-1.5; 26]. (This section amended, effective 1/1/2004)
* No brother shall be a District Deputy Grand Master and at the same time be a Grand Lodge officer named in Regulation 11-1. [3-1.5; 26-2.1; 26-2.2].
###REG. 11-5 GENERAL QUALIFICATIONS.
In addition to other qualifications imposed in THE LIGHT an officer of the Grand Lodge shall have the following general qualifications.
* Each officer of the Grand Lodge shall have and maintain membership in a subordinate lodge under its jurisdiction as provided for in Section 3-2.
* No brother shall be eligible for the offices of Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master, or a Grand Warden, who is not a Past Master of a subordinate lodge. [3-3.2;12-1; 57-8].
* A brother shall be a resident of North Carolina to be eligible for office in the Grand Lodge, and should he move his residence out of the state his office shall be vacant. [12-1; 12-4].
* Each Grand Lodge officer shall wear the jewel and apron of his respective office, to be properly clothed. [89-9.8].
###REG. 11-6 PAST ELECTIVE OFFICERS.
A past grand elective officer who is not an active Grand Lodge officer may hold office in a subordinate lodge, and this shall not in any way interfere with his rights as a past grand elective officer of the Grand Lodge. [3-3.2; 11-10.4.A; 53-2].
###REG. 11-7 TERM OF ELECTIVE OFFICERS.
All elective grand officers shall hold office until the next annual communication or until their successors are elected and installed. [13-2.10; 58-1].
###REG. 11-8 TERM OF APPOINTIVE OFFICERS.
All appointive grand officers shall hold office during the will and pleasure of the Grand Master appointing them or until their successors are appointed and installed unless otherwise provided. [13-2.10; 17-9.1; 58-1]
###REG. 11-9 RESIGNATION OF GRAND OFFICER.
A grand officer may resign by placing his written resignation in the hands of the Grand Master, or if it be the Grand Master who resigns then by his filing his written resignation with the Grand Secretary who shall immediately forward it to the successor in office of the Grand Master. Any vacancy thus created shall be filled as provided by law.
###REG. 11-10 GRAND MASTER'S DISABILITY.
The office of Grand Master is never vacant.
* In case of the death, absence from the jurisdiction, disability or refusal to serve of the Grand Master, the Deputy Grand Master shall fill the office of the Grand Master as Acting Grand Master. [Chapter 14].
* In case of the death, absence from the jurisdiction, disability or refusal to serve of the Grand Master and the Deputy Grand Master, the Senior Grand Warden shall fill the office of the Grand Master as Acting Grand Master. [37-1; Chapter 14].
* In case of the death, absence from the jurisdiction, disability or refusal to serve of the Grand Master, the Deputy Grand Master, and the Senior Grand Warden, the Junior Grand Warden shall fill the office of the Grand Master as Acting Grand Master. [Chapter 14].
* In case of the death, absence from the jurisdiction, disability, or refusal to serve of the four principal officers of the Grand Lodge, a Past Grand Master of this Grand Lodge who is then a resident of this jurisdiction, youngest in term of service and willing to serve, shall fill the office of the Grand Master as Acting Grand Master. [12-6].
* In the event such Past Grand Master is, at the time an installed officer of a subordinate lodge, such office in the lodge shall be made vacant automatically by his acceptance of the duties under this regulation as Acting Grand Master.
** His acceptance shall be considered equivalent to a resignation, and the vacancy in the office of the lodge shall be filled as provided by law. [3-3.2; 11-5.2; 11-6; 12-6; 57-8].
* In case of the death, absence from the jurisdiction, disability, or refusal to serve of the four principal officers of the Grand Lodge, and all resident Past Grand Masters of this Grand Lodge, the Master of the oldest subordinate lodge present shall preside as Acting Grand Master at any communication of the Grand Lodge. [11-12; Chapter 37].
###REG. 11-11 GRAND MASTER FILLS VACANCIES.
All vacancies in office, boards, commissions, or committees where not otherwise provided for, shall be filled by appointment by the Grand Master until the next annual communication of the Grand Lodge. [13-2.6; 13-2.7; 27-2; Chapter 34].
###REG. 11-12 DISABILITY AND ABSENCE.
The grand officer is absent so as to justify his successor in acting for him when he is not present at a communication of the Grand Lodge also when he is absent from the state, and he is disabled when he is unable physically, mentally, or otherwise to do official acts when necessity therefor arises. The Board of General Purposes shall determine when any officer of the Grand Lodge is disabled under THE LIGHT