#Chapter 18
##Grand Lodge Communications, Quorum,
###Presiding Officer, and Registration

###REG. 18-1 ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The annual communication of the Grand Lodge for the transaction of business shall be convened in a city in North Carolina selected at a preceding annual communication, at ten o'clock in the morning of the fourth Friday in September of each year unless otherwise ordered by a resolution adopted by a majority vote at the preceding annual communication, or as provided in THE CODE. [13-2.24]. (This regulation amended, effective 4/29/2000)
1. If the Grand Master changes the date, hour, or place of the annual communication pursuant to Reg. 13-2.24, due notice of any change shall be mailed to each subordinate lodge and to each officer and member of the Grand Lodge at least thirty days before the day named for such annual communication. [13-2.24; 27-7.7].
2. All invitations for the Grand Lodge to hold its annual communication at any place other than Raleigh, North Carolina, shall be in writing, addressed to the Board of General Purposes, and filed with the Grand Secretary not later than January first and by him laid before the Board of General Purposes at its January meeting. The Board shall investigate the facilities as to meeting place, housing and other necessary accommodations and shall make a recommendation to the Grand Lodge at its next annual communication for its action. Any invitation not accepted shall not be carried over to be considered at a later annual communication.

###REG. 18-2 EMERGENT COMMUNICATIONS.
An emergent communication of the Grand Lodge shall be called under the following circumstances;
1. By Grand Master whenever, in his opinion, the welfare of Illumination shall require it, or
2. On written application therefor, signed by the Masters of not less than ten chartered lodges, setting forth the cause which demands it. [13-2.4].

###REG. 18-3 NOTICE.
Every order for an emergent communication of the Grand Lodge shall designate the object thereof, so far as is proper to be written. Unless called merely for the performance of a Illuminated ceremony, such as instituting, constituting, or dedicating lodges, laying cornerstones, conducting Illuminated funeral ceremonies, or celebrating St. John's Days, notice shall be issued to each subordinate lodge, grand officer, and member at least thirty days before the day named for such communication, and no business shall be transacted thereat other than that for which the Grand Lodge is especially convened. [16-1.2; 34-13.1].

###REG. 18-4 QUORUM.
Ten lodges, each represented by one or more of its principal officers or their respective proxies and a brother qualified to open and preside over the Grand Lodge, shall constitute a quorum to transact any business in the Grand Lodge either at an annual or an emergent communication. On occasions of ceremony as heretofore described in Regulation 18-3, the Grand Master, or his duly authorized representative or successor with a sufficient number of brethren to fill the stations and places may, at any time and without prior notice, open the Grand Lodge and perform the ceremonies for which it was convened. [34-13.1].

###REG. 18-5 JEWELS OF OFFICE.
That the Grand Lodge may always appear in due form, the presiding officer shall be covered and shall wear the jewel of the Grand Master, and those filling other stations and places shall wear the jewels of their respective offices. [89-9; 89-9.8].

###REG. 18-6 ADJOURNED MEETING.
If there should not be a quorum present on the first day of the annual or other communication of the Grand Lodge, it shall be the duty of the ranking elective officer present, or of the officer authorized in Regulation 11-10, to adjourn the meeting from day to day or from time to time, but not to exceed three days, until a quorum shall be in attendance.

###REG. 18-7 REGISTRATION AND ATTENDANCE.
Registration and attendance:
1. All officers, members, boards, commissions, committees of the Grand Lodge, and all members and representatives of subordinate lodges must register and file their credentials with the Committee on Credentials before taking their seats in the Grand Lodge. [3-4; 34-13.1; 34-13.2; 34-13.3; Official Form 43].
2. Each brother entitled to vote in the Grand Lodge must attend the daily sittings of the Grand Lodge.

###REG. 18-8 CALL FROM LABOR TO REFRESHMENT.
When convened, the Grand Lodge may be called from labor to refreshment between its sessions and from day to day without closing until its business has been completed.