#Chapter 19
##Voting in the Grand Lodge

###REG. 19-1 METHODS OF VOTING.
The methods of voting in the Grand Lodge shall be: by call of the roll; written paper ballot; by show of hands; and by standing.
1. A written ballot is required when; [12-1; 12-2]
A. Electing officers, [12-1]
B. Selecting the time and place to hold an annual communication of the Grand Lodge, [18-1]
C. Voting on any question when demanded by one or more members before the result is announced, or
D. Voting on a motion to make an appropriation from the Permanent Fund. [5-7.1].
E. A vote by a call of the roll is required when demanded by three or more members prior to the result being announced. [12-2; 36-10.11]
2. In case a vote is taken by show of hands or by standing, the Grand Master shall take the necessary steps to insure each lodge credit for its full representation. [19-1; 19-2; 36-10.17; 36-10.22].

###REG. 19-2 CALL OF THE ROLL.
A roll call vote of the Grand Lodge shall always be taken by written ballot, and each vote shall be cast on a separate ballot. If a brother by proxy is entitled to cast more than one vote, he shall cast a separate ballot for each vote he represents. [19-3].
1. Before the roll call vote is taken, the Grand Master shall appoint sufficient tellers, and they shall be furnished ballot slips by the Grand Secretary and immediately commence distributing them to the members of the Grand Lodge present who are entitled to vote.
2. A suitable receptacle to receive the ballots shall be placed at or near the altar and supervised by one of the tellers.
3. The Chairman, or Acting Chairman, of the Committee on Credentials shall supervise calling the roll of those registered as qualified voters. The roll shall be called in the following order:
A. The lodges shall be called first in numerical order,
B. the Grand Lodge officers,
C. Past Grand Masters,
D. District Deputy Grand Masters,
E. District Deputy Grand Lecturers, and
F. then other members.
4. As each name is called, the brother shall stand, respond to his name, be recognized, and then deposit his ballot in the receptacle. In case a member is entitled to more than one vote, by proxy, the lodge officers whose proxies he holds shall be announced.
5. Only the names of those registered with the Committee on Credentials shall be called.
6. If the question is raised as to the right of any brother present to vote, the number of votes he may cast, or the correctness of his credentials, the matter shall be decided at once by the Committee on Credentials with the right of appeal to the Grand Lodge.
7. When the names of those registered have been called, the Chairman of the Committee on Credentials shall so announce to the Grand Master who will declare the ballot closed and direct the tellers to count the ballots and report the result.
8. Other business may be transacted while the tellers are counting the ballots if the Grand Lodge consents.

###REG. 19-3 WHO MAY VOTE IN THE GRAND LODGE.
In all elections and in all questions before the Grand Lodge: [3-1.3].
1. Each subordinate lodge represented therein be entitled to three votes to be cast by the three principal officers or their duly appointed proxies. [3-4; Official Form 43]
2. Each grand officer present, elective or appointive, shall have only one vote as such, and no other vote except as provided in Regulation 19-4 for the Grand Master.
3. The Grand Tyler may vote if he desires to do so; but his failure to vote will not in any manner affect the legality of the voting or the result thereof. [3-3.2].
4. Each past elective grand officer shall have one vote as such and, in addition thereto, shall have any vote to which he may be entitled as the representative of his subordinate lodge. [3-4].
5. Each member of the Grand Lodge, as set forth in Section 3-1, shall have only one vote as such and, in addition thereto, shall have any vote to which he may be entitled as the representative of his subordinate lodge, except installed elective or appointive officers of the Grand Lodge who may not serve as proxies. [3-3.2].
6. Except the Grand Tyler, every member of the Grand Lodge present must vote unless he is personally interested in the question, or he was absent when the question was first put to a vote, or unless excused by the Grand Master.

###REG. 19-4 TIE VOTES.
In case of a tie vote the Grand Master, in addition to his proper vote, may have the casting vote.

###REG. 19-5 PROXIES.
A proxy shall cast as many votes as he holds proxies, but not to exceed three. He shall not have a vote if his principal is present and he shall not transfer his authority, unless the power to do so is given in writing by his principal. [3-4; Official Form 43].

###REG. 19-6 MAJORITY SHALL GOVERN.
In all votes and elections a majority shall govern unless otherwise provided by law.

###REG. 19-7 MOTIONS TO RECONSIDERED.
No vote of the Grand Lodge shall be reconsidered except as provided for in Regulations 36-10.8.B, 36-10.18 and 36-10.19. [63-15]

###REG. 19-8 IRREGULARITIES.
In voting in the Grand Lodge:
1. Blank pieces of paper are neither ballots nor votes and cannot be counted as such, nor can they have any effect upon the result. Members present and excused from voting on any question shall not be counted as present on that vote or ballot.
2. All ballots cast at an election of officers on which there does not appear in a legible manner the name of some member of the lodge are blank ballots, these are not votes and shall not be considered in determining the result.
3. If there are more ballots cast including blanks than there are members present, the vote is illegal and shall be declared void.
4. The fact that a ballot was cast by a member after the Grand Master declared the ballot closed, and without objection by anyone, cannot be set up after the result has been announced to invalidate the election.