#Chapter 22
##Grand Lodge Financial Reports and Audit

###REG. 22-1 REPORTS TO COMMITTEE ON FINANCE.
The Grand Treasurer and the Grand Secretary shall make a detailed written report of all monies and other property received by them, stating the source of and the disposition made thereof during the preceding fiscal year; and before March fifteenth of that year, they shall deliver one copy of such reports to the Grand Master, one copy to the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, and two copies to the Grand Secretary for the Grand Lodge records. [15-1.8; 16-1.14; 16-1.39; 21-5]. (This regulation amended, effective 1/1/2006)
1. The Committee on Finance may require the Grand Treasurer and the Grand Secretary, to lay before it all vouchers and receipts for the payment of moneys by them respectively, during the preceding fiscal year. [34-5.1].
2. The Grand Treasurer and the Grand Secretary, shall make and deliver such other reports relating to finances and property as may be ordered by the Grand Lodge or the Grand Master.

###REG. 22-2 REPORT ON SUBORDINATE LODGES.
On the first day of September in each year the Grand Secretary shall report to the Grand Master all subordinate lodges that have failed to make their annual returns or have failed to pay in full their indebtedness to the Grand Lodge and the amount thereof. [16-1.39].

###REG. 22-3 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
The Grand Master shall require the foregoing provisions of this chapter to be strictly complied with. He shall forthwith call to the attention of the officer or board of directors in default any neglect or omission. If such delinquent officer or board of directors shall fail at once to comply with such provisions, the Grand Master is empowered and shall at once remove or suspend such officer or the director who may be responsible for such delinquency and who represents the Grand Lodge on such board of directors.

###REG. 22-4 EXAMINATION BY ACCOUNTANT.
The Grand Master shall engage a competent accountant and contract with him to examine the books and accounts of the Grand Treasurer; the Grand Secretary and any other agency or institution in which the Grand Lodge may be financially interested and report to the Grand Lodge and the Grand Master their condition as of the close of each preceding fiscal year of each office, agency or institution or oftener if required to do so by the Grand Master. [22-4.3].
(This regulation amended, effective 1/1/2006)
1. Such accountant shall not be either a member or an officer of the Grand Lodge.
2. The compensation for such services shall be as agreed to by the Grand Master under this regulation.
3. Not later than March fifteenth of each year the books, records, accounts, vouchers, securities, funds, and all other financial matters of the Grand Treasurer; the Grand Secretary; and any other agency or institution in which the Grand Lodge has a proprietary interest for the preceding fiscal year shall be carefully audited and examined by the accountant and a written report shall be submitted by him to the next annual communication of the Grand Lodge.(This section amended, effective 1/1/2006)
4. Before August fifteenth of each year, one copy of each of the audit reports in detail shall be filed with the Grand Master, one copy with the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, two copies with the Grand Secretary for the Grand Lodge records and files, and such other copies as are ordered by the Grand Master or the Grand Lodge. [15-1.8; 15-1.12; 16-1.14; 21-1].(This section amended, effective 1/1/2006)
5. The accountant shall make such additional audits from time to time as may be authorized by the Grand Lodge or the Grand Master.