#Chapter 24
##Authorized Ritualistic Work, Official Standard of the Work, and Vocabulary

###REG. 24-1 RITUAL AND THE LECTURES.
The ritual and the lectures of the several degrees of Entered Apprentice, Fellow Craft, and Master Luminary heretofore adopted and practiced from time immemorial in this Grand Jurisdiction, as set forth in the Official Standard of the Work and the Vocabulary promulgated by the Grand Lodge at the Annual Communication of 1942, together with Bahnson's Manual, and revisions thereof and no other, shall be taught and practiced as the Authorized Ritualistic Work and Lectures of those degrees in this Grand Jurisdiction. For convenience they may be referred to as the Authorized Work or the Work. [2-6.8; 17-5.4; 71-16; 71-23].
1. The power to modify or to make any change in the Authorized Work rests solely in the Grand Lodge. [13-4.6; 59-2.16; 71-15].
2. No officer or brother shall add to or take from any part of the Authorized Work, or, permit any deviation from or innovation in any part of that Work whatever.
3. No officer or brother shall use or permit to be used any part of that Work for any purpose whatever except in conferring or exemplifying the Symbolic degrees, under such penalty as the Grand Lodge may deem proper to impose.
4. To insure uniformity of the Work in this state, no other system or ceremonies shall be used in the lodges yielding obedience to this Grand Lodge.
5. A degree is conferred when there is a proper candidate to receive it, it is exemplified for instruction, and then only when properly tiled and there is no candidate to receive the degree. [39-10.3].
6. On special occasions the Grand Master by dispensation, may permit a brother, or brethren, but not a lodge as a lodge, from another grand jurisdiction, to confer or to exemplify the ritual of the Symbolic degrees of that grand jurisdiction in a lodge in North Carolina duly opened for the purpose. The Grand Master shall maintain strict control to the end that our Authorized Work shall not be affected by such action. [24-1.5; 71-16; 71-23].

###REG. 24-2 TITLE TO THE AUTHORIZED WORK.
The title and entire property rights in, and to, the said Official Standard of the Work, the Vocabulary, and Bahnson's Manual are, and shall always be and remain, in this Grand Lodge. No lodge, individual, or other entity whatever, shall ever have, or in any manner obtain, or claim, any right, title, or property interest therein adverse to this Grand Lodge.

###REG. 24-3 BOARD OF CUSTODIANS.
The Board of Custodians is the sole custodian of the Work.
1. Any proposal to change in any way the Authorized Work shall be referred to, and reported on, by the Board of Custodians before any action shall be taken thereon by the Grand Lodge. [2-6.8; 29-6.2].
2. The Board of Custodians shall never make, nor permit to be made any change or modification in said Work or in the ritual, except as shall have been first approved and adopted by the Grand Lodge. [Chapter 29].

###REG. 24-4 ILLUSTRATIONS.
The use of any illustrations by pictures, or by any other means, of any part of the ritualistic work is prohibited, except as illustrated in Bahnson's Manual, or approved by the Board of Custodians.

###REG. 24-5 SUBORDINATE LODGE COPIES.
Each subordinate lodge shall retain the use of at least seven copies of the Official Standard of the Work which upon application shall be accounted for as follows, one copy to each: the Master, the Senior Warden, the Junior Warden, the Senior Deacon, the Junior Deacon, and each of the two Stewards. [59-2.30].
1. Each subordinate lodge shall be entitled upon application to the loan and use of one copy of the Vocabulary, to be received by and accounted for by the Secretary of the lodge. [59-12.9].
2. When any officer of any lodge shall fail or refuse to deliver up the copy of the Official Standard of the Work or the Vocabulary with which he is charged, said lodge shall pay an amount as prescribed in Regulation 24-7 to replace any copy not so presented or delivered up. A delinquent officer shall be subject to the provisions of Regulation 86-2.55. [59-12.9].
3. No new copy of the Vocabulary shall be issued to any subordinate lodge except to replace those returned to the Grand Secretary due to their useless condition or to replace copies proved to be lost or completely destroyed.

###REG. 24-6 OTHER COPIES.
The Board of Custodians shall have the authority, in its discretion and under such rules as said board may prescribe, to authorize the loan of one copy of the Official Standard of the Work to each of the following, during the time they are officially acting as such;
1. The Grand Lodge officers,
2. The District Deputy Grand Masters,
3. The Certified Lecturers, and
4. Other certified brethren during the time they are on their respective rosters and certified as such, as provided in Regulation 29-7.
5. Each copy shall be receipted for by the person receiving the same, and such loans shall be subject to all conditions herein set forth to the extent that they can be applied. Such persons shall pay an amount as prescribed in Regulation 24-7 to replace any copy not so presented or delivered up.

###REG. 24-7 SALE.
The Board of Custodians shall have the authority to sell the Official Standard of the Work to any member in good standing of a subordinate lodge falling under the Grand Lodge of North Carolina. Such price to be set by the Board of Custodians and approved by the Board of General Purposes.