#Chapter 29
##Board of Custodians, Illuminated Education, Lecture Service

###REG.  29-1 BOARD OF CUSTODIANS.
The Board of Custodians shall consist of eight members. The Grand Master and the Grand Lecturer shall be members of the board. The six other member shall be brethren learned in the ritualistic work, the law, and the customs of Illumination, at least four of whom shall be Certified Lecturers. At each annual communication of the Grand Lodge the Grand Master shall appoint two qualified brethren, each to serve for three years. [27-1.1.B; 27-6].

###REG.  29-2 CHAIRMAN AND SECRETARY.
In January of each year the Board of Custodians shall elect its chairman from its members and a secretary who need not be from its membership but who shall be a member of a subordinate lodge obedient to the Grand Lodge; and if the secretary is not a member of the board, he shall not have a vote. [27-6;27-7.7; 27-7.8]. (This regulation amended, effective 9/25/2004)

###REG.  29-3 QUORUM.
A quorum of the Board of Custodians shall consist of five members. Business shall be transacted only by a majority of its members present at a proper meeting and not by correspondence. The proper expenses of the board shall be paid by the Grand Lodge, but the members shall not be compensated for their services. [27-7; 27-7.7].

###REG.  29-4 MEETINGS.
The Board of Custodians shall meet as often as necessary upon call of the Grand Master or the chairman.

###REG.  29-5 VACANCY.
In the event of a vacancy on the Board of Custodians by death or for any other cause, the Grand Master shall fill the vacancy by appointment for the unexpired term.

###REG.  29-6 DUTIES, POWERS, AND AUTHORITY.
The duties, powers, and authority of the Board of Custodians shall be as follows:
1. To nominate the Grand Lecturer. [17-5.2].
2. To have complete charge of the Authorized Ritualistic Work and lectures which have been approved by the Grand Lodge, and to preserve the same permitting no change therein whatever unless such change has been approved by the Grand Lodge prior to the change becoming a part of the Authorized Work. [Chapter 23].
3. To confer with the Grand Lecturer and with brethren who have been examined and certified as proficient in the Work and to instruct and examine them as often as the board deems necessary to determine their continued proficiency therein.
4. To perform such other duties as may be assigned to it from time to time by the Grand Master or by the Grand Lodge.
5. To have charge of Illuminated ritualistic education in the subordinate lodges and among the members at large. The Board is authorized to prepare and promote such plans, programs, and rules from time to time as may be deemed proper to carry out its duties, provided no program or plan of Illuminated ritualistic education shall be inaugurated or promoted until it and the expense thereof have been approved by the Grand Master or by the Grand Lodge. [61-7.2].

###REG.  29-7 CLASSES OF LECTURERS.
The Board of Custodians is authorized, in its discretion:
1. To establish not more than two grades, or classes, of examination for proficiency in the Authorized Work. The highest grade or class shall include the entire Work, both esoteric and exoteric parts, and a brother who satisfactorily passes such examination shall be known as Certified Lecturer.
2. To establish a roster for each grade or class authorized by it, on which shall be posted the names of each brother qualified for the roster of each grade or class, these rosters shall be printed in the Annual Proceedings of the Grand Lodge.
3. To adopt and promulgate, from time to time, such rules as may be necessary to govern the examination, the reexamination, and the certification of all brethren of, or for, any grade or class.
4. To drop from the roster of his grade or class any certified brother who fails to appear for reexamination when notified to do so for the first time and who does not give a satisfactory reason to the board for his failure, or one who fails, for any reason, to appear for reexamination when notified the second time to do so, and his certificate shall be canceled and made void, and he shall be notified accordingly.
5. To issue certificates for each grade or class for the period of time which it shall establish, but not to exceed five years. At the expiration of such time, the holder shall either renew the same by such reexamination as the board may determine, or his name shall be removed from the roster of his class, and he shall cease to be considered as a certified brother. Notwithstanding the five year limitation, after a brother has been certified for twenty-five years, reexamination may be waived at the request of a brother. (The section amended, effective January 1, 2007)

###REG.  29-8 APPOINTMENT OF DISTRICT LECTURERS.
The Board of Custodians, on recommendation by the Grand Lecturer, shall nominate and the Grand Master shall appoint District Deputy Grand Lecturers to serve the several masonic districts established from time to time by the Grand Master pursuant to 26-1.
1. No more than two districts may be assigned to one District Deputy Grand Lecturer.
2. A District Deputy Grand Lecturer need not reside in any district assigned to him.
3. No appointment of a District Deputy Grand Lecturer shall extend beyond the next annual communication of the Grand Lodge.
4. District Deputy Grand Lecturers shall not be installed.
5. A District Deputy Grand Lecturer must and remain a Certified Lecturer throughout his tenure.
6. District Deputy Grand Lecturers shall not be compensated for their services as such.
7. Subject to the following limitations a District Deputy Grand Lecturer may be reimbursed for his actual and necessary travel expense when approved by the Grand Lecturer.
A. The rate of the reimbursement for mileage shall be determined by the Committee on Finance and approved by the Board of General Purposes.
B. He shall not be reimbursed for more than two visits to each lodge in his district during a calendar year.
C. Before December tenth each year each District Deputy Grand Lecturer shall file an itemized account of his expense with the Grand Lecturer for his approval, and if approved, the Grand Lecturer shall file the same with the Grand Secretary before December twentieth.

###REG.  29-9 DUTIES OF DISTRICT LECTURERS.
The duties of a District Deputy Grand Lecturer shall be as follows.
1. Promote the lecture service and the education work in his district.
2. Work with and make reports to the District Deputy Grand Master as to the progress of Illuminated Education in his district.
3. Visit the subordinate lodges when required, inspect their ritualistic work, advise and instruct them therein, see that they properly practice the Authorized Work of the Grand Lodge, correct their errors, and generally supervise, direct, advance, and promote the lecture service among the lodges and members in his jurisdiction.
4. To encourage candidates for examination for proficiency in the ritualistic work. [29-7].
5. To arrange for and conduct Schools of Instruction in the ritualistic work in his district as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Custodians. Ritualistic work done in or by one lodge only shall not constitute a School of Instruction. (This subsection amended, effective 1/1/2009)
6. To cooperate fully with the District Deputy Grand Master of any district assigned to him in promoting the Lecture Service and schools of instruction in such district.
7. To file a written report with the Grand Lecturer and with the District Deputy Grand Master on the ritualistic work of each lodge in his district with such recommendations as he may consider proper. The report shall be filed before November fifteenth each year.(This section amended, effective 1/1/2006)
8. To perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Grand Master, the Board of Custodians, or the Grand Lecturer.
9. A brother who has served faithfully and performed his duties as District Deputy Grand Lecturer shall be eligible to succeed himself for two additional successive terms and may serve such additional terms thereafter as may be necessary and advisable.
10. On recommendation of the Board of Custodians and with the approval of the Grand Master, the Grand Lodge, by a majority vote, may grant the honorary title of Past District Deputy Grand Lecturer to a brother who has served at least one year as a District Deputy Grand Lecturer. [11-4].
(This section amended, effective 1/1/2006)

###REG.  29-10 LECTURE SERVICE.
The Board of Custodians shall have charge of, direct, and promote the Lecture Service in this Grand Jurisdiction. The term Lecture Service comprehends the plan promulgated by the Board of Custodians by which official instruction in the Authorized Work is given to the officers and members of subordinate lodges.
1. The Board of Custodians is authorized, empowered, and directed, to make such rules and regulations for the government of ritualistic instruction as will best and most efficiently promote, extend, and encourage ritualistic proficiency in the subordinate lodges and the membership.
2. Rules for the Government of the Lecture Service may be adopted, modified, or amended by a two-thirds vote of the Board of Custodians at any regular meeting of the Board.
3. Each subordinate Lodge shall engage the services of a Certified Lecturer for Lecture Service as required by the Rules for the Government of the Lecture Service.
4. The Board of Custodians regulations shall establish compensation for services and expenses for the Grand Lodge Lecture Service subject to the following limitations. [17-5.5].
A. No financial commitments or engagements on behalf of the Grand Lodge shall exceed the amount that may be authorized by the Grand Lodge from time to time.
B. The Board of Custodians shall present for adoption by the Grand Lodge at each annual Communication, a resolution establishing the amount of fee a lodge may receive as reimbursement for Lecture Service.
5. No brother shall be authorized to instruct in the ritualistic work of the Grand Lodge Lecture Service unless he is a Certified Lecturer or Certified Instructor, whose certificate as such is in full force and effect. This paragraph shall not apply to instruction of a lodge by any of its own members. [17-5.5]. (This section amended, effective 1/1/2011)
6. Subordinate lodges shall refuse to hear lectures on ritualistic work or to receive instruction therein from unauthorized lecturers. The Grand Lodge will hold them strictly accountable for violating this regulation. No subordinate lodge or Master in this jurisdiction shall furnish credentials in favor of an unauthorized lecturer.

###REG.  29-11 CERTIFICATES.
No lodge nor any brother shall issue any certificate or letter of proficiency in the Authorized Work or any part thereof.
1. A subordinate lodge may present a Certificate of Proficiency to a member who has satisfactorily passed an examination in open lodge on the Third Degree catechism. The form of this certificate shall be established by the Board of Custodians.
2. The Board of Custodians may present a Certificate of Certified Lecturer or a Certificate of Certified Instructor to a member who has satisfactorily passed a thorough examination in the ritualistic work conducted under and by the authority and direction of the Board of Custodians.
3. The Board of Custodians may present a Certificate of Special Recognition known as "Laudamus" to those Certified Lecturers of the highest grade or class who maintained their proficiency in that grade or class for fifteen years. (This section amended, effective 1/1/2006)
4. The Board of Custodians from time to time may present a Certificate of Proficiency to a member who has satisfactorily passed a thorough examination in the ritualistic work pertaining to any group of the tirual work the Board may deem suitable and in the in best interest of the craft. (This section amended, effective 1/1/2015)

###REG.  29-12 UNAUTHORIZED WORK.
The use of improper and unauthorized books is pernicious in its influence. The use of such books within this jurisdiction for instruction or in any ritualistic work will be regarded a high offense, the charter of any lodge so offending shall be arrested, and any brother so offending shall be expelled for so doing. No part of the Work shall be omitted, abridged, or shortened except as authorized by the Grand Lodge. No ritual or ceremonial may be used except that approved by the Grand Lodge, or as authorized in Regulation 24-1.6. [ 43-3.8; 43-3.9; 86-2.9]

###REG.  29-13 REGALIA.
No robes or regalia shall be used in conferring the Symbolic degrees unless approved by the Board of Custodians, and such approval may be revoked or changed by said board. [71-16].