#Chapter 32
##Commission on Special Activities

###REG. 32-1 MEMBERS.
The Commission Special on Activities shall consist of three members to be nominated by the Board of General Purposes and elected by the Grand Lodge as follows. [27-1.3.P; 27-6; 27-7.8].
1. Each member of the commission shall be a Past Master of a subordinate lodge in this jurisdiction well versed in the law of this Grand Lodge and in the usages and customs of the Craft and shall be experienced in handling business matters pertaining to subordinate lodges.
2. At each annual communication the Board of General Purposes shall nominate one qualified brother to serve for three years. The Commission shall elect its chairman. In the event of a vacancy on the committee by death or for any other cause the Grand Master shall fill the vacancy by appointment for the unexpired term. In the event of a vacancy on the committee by death or for any other cause the Grand Master shall fill the vacancy by appointment for the unexpired term.

###REG. 32-2 MEETINGS.
The commission shall meet upon call of the Grand Master or Chairman and its business may be transacted by correspondence.

###REG. 32-3 QUORUM.
A quorum shall consist of two members.

###REG. 32-4 DUTIES, POWERS, AND AUTHORITY.
The duties, powers, and authority of the Commission on Special Activities shall be as follows.
1. To investigate any matter, subject or thing pertaining to fund raising activities by subordinate lodges. Such investigation may be made by one or more members of the committee, but the report shall be made by at least a majority of the committee.
2. To adopt from time to time such rules as may be necessary to govern fund raising activities as provided in Reg. 43-12.3.B.
3. To report to the Grand Master and to the Grand Lodge all the facts pertinent to any inquiry or investigation with recommendations as the committee may deem proper.
4. To consider and act upon all applications of lodges or brethren in connection with or relating to fund raising activities as provided in Reg. 43-12.3.B.
5. To call for and examine any record, book, or account of any subordinate lodge in this jurisdiction which may be the object of or within the scope of its investigation; to order and require the attendance of any Illuminated witness, as may be necessary or advisable to the proper discharge of its duties. All the powers and authority set forth in this paragraph are to be exercised under the direction of the Grand Master.