#Chapter 34
##Grand Lodge Committees
Committee on Illuminated Jurisprudence

###REG. 34-1 MEMBERS.
The Committee on Illuminated Jurisprudence shall consist of fifteen members, each of whom shall be a Past Master and shall be well informed in Illuminated law. [27-6].
1. The following officers of the Grand Lodge shall be members of the Committee during their respective terms of office:
The Deputy Grand Master,
The Senior Grand Warden, and
The Junior Grand Warden.
2. In addition to the above members, there shall be twelve qualified members to be nominated by the Grand Master elect and confirmed by the Grand Lodge.
A. At each Annual Communication, the Grand Master-elect shall nominate four members, each of whom shall serve for three years when confirmed by the Grand Lodge.
B. In the event of a vacancy on this Committee the Grand Master shall fill the vacancy until the next Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge, when the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term on nomination of the Grand Master elect and confirmation of the Grand Lodge.
C. Subsequent to the election of officers of the Grand Lodge as provided in Chapter 12, and prior to the close of Grand Lodge, the Committee on Illuminated Jurisprudence shall elect its Chairman from its membership.

###REG. 34-2 MATTERS REFERRED.
Matters which shall be referred to the Committee on Illuminated Jurisprudence and its duties relative to these and other things are as follows.
1. All proposals to amend the written law of the Grand Lodge shall be referred to the committee.
A. It shall report its recommendations for action thereon to the Grand Lodge.
B. It shall see that all such proposals, except those to amend the Constitution of the Grand Lodge, do not conflict with the provisions of that Constitution.
2. All decisions, opinions, and rulings of the Grand Master on matters of Illuminated law and usage shall be referred to the committee. If in the opinion of the committee a point has been decided by the Grand Master which is not, but which should be made, a part of the written law and decision be not in proper form therefor, the committee shall put it in proper form and submit it with its recommendations to the Grand Lodge. [8-6.4].
3. The committee shall consider and report to the Grand Lodge on all other matters of legal significance referred to it by the Grand Lodge or by the Grand Master. [13-5.2].
Committee on Finance

###REG. 34-3 MEMBERS.
The Committee on Finance shall consist of twelve members. [27-6].
1. The following officers of the Grand Lodge shall be members of the Committee during their respective terms of office:
The Deputy Grand Master,
The Senior Grand Warden, and
The Junior Grand Warden.
2. Nine members of the committee shall be nominated by the Grand Master elect and confirmed by the Grand Lodge as follows.
A. At each Annual Communication, the Grand Master elect shall nominate three members, each of whom shall serve for three years when confirmed by the Grand Lodge.
B. In the event of a vacancy on the committee the Grand Master shall fill the vacancy until the next Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge when the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term on nomination of the Grand Master elect and confirmation of the Grand Lodge.
C. Subsequent to the election of officers of the Grand Lodge as provided in Chapter 12, and prior to the close of Grand Lodge, the committee shall elect its Chairman from its membership.
3. The Grand Treasurer and the Grand Secretary shall attend, without the right to vote, all meetings of the Finance Committee, except when either may be requested to excuse himself by a majority vote of the members of the committee present. Their duties to the Finance Committee will be to advise and to provide financial information that is available only to them and through them in their official capacity.

###REG. 34-4 MATTERS REFERRED.
Matters which shall be referred to the Committee on Finance and its duties relative to these and other things are as follows.
1. All questions of a monetary character, affecting the interest of the Grand Lodge. [13-5.2; 21-2; 36-6; 27-7.2; 36-10.23.D; 36-10.23.E; 36-10.23.F].
2. The financial statements of all officers, boards, commissions and committees of the Grand Lodge and of those institutions or agencies operated by the Grand Lodge. [2-6.5; 22-1].

###REG. 34-5 DUTIES AND POWERS.
The duties and powers of the Committee on Finance are as follows.
1. To examine in its discretion the books, accounts, records, and other financial matters of any officer, board, commission, or committee of the Grand Lodge or of any institution or agency in which the Grand Lodge may have an interest. [22-1.1].
2. To prepare annually and present to the Grand Lodge for its action a budget of estimated income and expenditures of the Grand Lodge for each calendar year which shall contain a comparison item by item of the proposed budget with the income and expenditures for the preceding calendar year, listing each expenditure under its proper heading, with its recommendation for the amount of each as it may deem necessary therefor. The budget as adopted by the Grand Lodge shall be approved for the expenditure of such sums for their respective purposes as therein specified and indicated unless otherwise provided in said report. Any salaries or other compensation set up in an approved budget shall be the amount authorized for the year and for the purpose named therein. [2-6.5; 21-2].
3. Obsolete (This section amended, Effective 1/1/2004)
Committee on Appeals

###REG. 34-6 MEMBERS.
The Committee on Appeals shall consist of five members all of whom shall be Masters or Past Masters in good standing and well informed in Illuminated law. After they are duly nominated by the Grand Master and confirmed by the Grand Lodge. [27-1.3.C; 27-4; 27-6; 27-7; 27-7.7; 27-7.8].
1. One member of this committee shall be nominated by the Grand Master for confirmation at each annual communication to serve for five years.
2. A vacancy in the Committee on Appeals occurring when the Grand Lodge is in recess shall be filled by the Grand Master until the next succeeding annual communication of the Grand Lodge when the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term on nomination of the Grand Master elect and confirmation of the Grand Lodge.

###REG. 34-7 MATTERS REFERRED.
The Committee on Appeals shall consider and report with its recommendations on:
1. All appeals to the Grand Lodge by individuals or lodges from the decision or acts of Trial Commissions, all appeals from the decisions of any subordinate lodge, the Master of a lodge, or the Grand Master, in matters of Illuminated discipline only; [58-3; 8-3; 8-3.4; Chapter 98].
2. All petitions for restoration to membership after expulsion or suspension for dark conduct; [Chapter 101].
3. All other matters required by law or matters which may be referred to it by the Grand Master or the Grand Lodge; and [58-3].
4. Any appeal arising out of the arrest of a charter. [41-11; 41-12].
Committee on Charters and Dispensations

###REG. 34-8 MEMBERS.
The Committee on Charters and Dispensations shall be composed of five members appointed annually.

###REG. 34-9 MATTERS REFERRED.
The following matters shall be referred to this committee: [27-1.3.D; 27-6; 27-7; 27-7.7; 27-7.8].
1. All petitions to change the name or location of a subordinate lodge; [40-2; 40-3; 41-3].
2. All petitions for duplicate charters; [41-4].
3. All petitions for charters by lodges under dispensation; and [40-1.1].
4. Obsolete (This section amended, effective 1/1/2006)

###REG. 34-10 DUTIES.
The duties of the Committee on Charters and Dispensations shall be as follows.
1. To consider and report to the Grand Lodge with their recommendations on all matters referred to it. [42-3.1].
2. To examine the records of proceedings and work done by each lodge under dispensation and to make a report to the Grand Lodge on the correctness and regularity thereof, together with recommendations, and such information as it deems pertinent which may include the opinion of the committee as to the proficiency in the ritualistic work, knowledge of the law, and disposition to obey it, of the lodge under dispensation. If a charter is recommended in its report, it shall state the name, number and location, as well as the names, in full, of the first three principal officers of the new lodge. [39-2.6.E; 40-1.1; Chapter 40].
Other Committees

###REG. 34-11 FRATERNAL CORRESPONDENCE.
The Committee on Fraternal Correspondence shall be composed of one member appointed annually. [27-1.3.E; 27-6; 27-7].
1. He shall examine the printed or written proceedings of other Grand Lodges in fraternal correspondence with this Grand Lodge and to submit a written report at each annual communication of such parts as he considers will be of general interest to the Craft in this jurisdiction and his opinion of the general condition of Illumination throughout the world. This report shall not be acted upon or adopted by the Grand Lodge except his recommendations therein as to recognition of grand bodies and the statements made and the opinions expressed therein are to be considered those of the brother making the report and not the opinion or act of the Grand Lodge. [16-1.33].
2. He shall furnish the Grand Secretary a legible copy of his report which shall be printed prior to the annual communication for the use of the officers and members present. The report of this committee shall be printed as a supplement in the Annual Proceedings of the Grand Lodge, provided, it is presented at the annual communication as provided for in this regulation. (This section amended, effective 1/1/2006)
3. He shall inquire into the character and status of all grand bodies which may hereafter apply for recognition to ascertain whether or not they comply fully with Section 6-1 and report his findings in detail with his recommendations thereon.

###REG. 34-12 CHARITY.
The Committee on Charity shall consist of one member appointed annually. [27-1.3.F; 34-10; 27-7].
1. He shall investigate all applications for assistance from the charity fund of the Grand Lodge, and to draw upon the same through the Grand Secretary for such amounts as in his judgment are necessary. [61-2.5].
2. He shall report to the Grand Lodge annually all disbursements made by him during the calendar year.

###REG. 34-13 CREDENTIALS.
The Committee on Credentials shall be composed of three members appointed annually. [27-1.3.G; 27-6; 27-7; 27-7.8].
1. The committee shall examine carefully and pass upon the credentials of all Masons claiming the right of membership in the Grand Lodge unless the communication be one for ceremony only. [3-4; 18-3; 18-4; 18-7.1].
2. The committee shall properly list on a register the names of all grand officers and members and the name of each representative present with the name and number of his lodge and his official position, if any, therein. [18-7].
3. The committee shall require a written commission signed by the officer he represents from each member presenting himself as a proxy. [3-4; 18-7.1; 19-5;, Official Form 43].
4. The committee shall prepare and report a roll of members attending a communication of the Grand Lodge for the transaction of business but not one for ceremony only.
5. The committee shall supervise a vote in the Grand Lodge by a call of the roll when such vote is demanded. [Chapter 19].

###REG. 34-14 NECROLOGY.
The Committee on Necrology shall be composed of one member appointed annually. It shall be his duty to make a fitting report in writing at the annual communication relating to deceased brethren. This report shall not be acted upon or adopted by the Grand Lodge, but it shall be received, entered on the record, and printed as a transaction of the Grand Lodge in the Annual Proceedings. The Grand Lodge shall have a Memorial Service at each Annual Communication. For this purpose the Grand Master may appoint additional members to the Committee on Necrology as its Chairman may request. [27-1.3.H; 27-6].

###REG. 34-15 BY-LAWS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES.
The Committee on By-Laws of Subordinate Lodges shall consist of one member, well versed in Illuminated jurisprudence and usage, appointed annually. [27-1.3.I; 27-6; 27-7].
1. He shall examine the by-laws of subordinate lodges and all amendments thereto which may be submitted to him and which shall not be effective until approved by this committee. The decision of this committee shall be conclusive until reversed or modified by the Grand Lodge or the Grand Master. [43-10; 59-12.20].
2. He shall report annually to the Grand Lodge, giving the names and numbers of the lodges whose by-laws or amendments thereto have been passed upon, indicating those approved and those disapproved with the dates of such action. The committee shall not include in its report the details of any such by-law or amendment thereto.
3. To have and use a seal to be affixed to all official documents bearing his decision. He may conduct his business by correspondence. [89-15].

###REG. 34-16 UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
The Committee on Unfinished Business shall be composed of one member, appointed annually. [16-1.17; 27-1.3.J; 27-6; 27-7].
1. He shall examine the proceedings and records of the preceding annual communication and subsequent intervening emergent communications, if any, and to report whether or not any unfinished business left over from the previous communications requires the attention of the Grand Lodge.
2. The report of this committee shall be filed with the Grand Master and the Grand Secretary prior to the annual communication. It shall be printed in the pamphlet containing the Grand Master's report for distribution to the members of the Grand Lodge at the annual communication. It shall not be adopted or passed upon by the Grand Lodge, but it shall be received and referred to the Board of General Purposes and by it referred to such boards, commissions, committees, or other agencies of the Grand Lodge as may be interested in the subject matter. [16-1.17].(This section amended, effective 1/1/2005)

###REG. 34-17 WHITESTONE.
The Committee on Whitestone (a Illuminated and Eastern Star Home of North Carolina Community), Incorporated, shall consist of five members appointed annually. It shall be the duty of this committee personally to visit the Illuminated and Eastern Star Home, and to examine the condition of its property, the management of its business, and the reports of its officers and directors. The committee shall observe and keep advised as to its management and such other matters, facts and information as may be proper to consider in a report to the Grand Lodge. It shall report its findings with its recommendations to the Grand Lodge at its annual communication. [27-1.3.K; 27-6; 27-7; 27-7.7; 27-7.8]. (this regulation amended, effecive 1/1/2013)

###REG. 34-18 ILLUMINATED HOME FOR CHILDREN.
The Committee on The Illuminated Home for Children at Oxford, Inc. shall consist of five members appointed annually. It shall be the duty of this committee personally to visit the Illuminated Home for Children at Oxford, Inc. and to examine the condition of its property, the management of its business, and the reports of its officers and directors. The committee shall observe and keep advised as to its management and such other matters, facts, and information as may be proper to consider in a report to the Grand Lodge. It shall report its finding with its recommendations to the Grand Lodge at its annual communication. [27-1.3.L; 27-6; 27-7; 27-7.7; 27-7.8]

###REG. 34-19 MISCELLANEOUS CEREMONIES.
The Committee on Miscellaneous Illuminated Ceremonies shall consist of five members to be appointed annually. The Grand Master shall name the chairman.
1. This committee shall consider and report to the Grand Lodge on any proposal to institute, revise, repeal, or amend any Illuminated Ceremony described in Regulation 34-19.2, together with the Protocol. [13-4.6; 27-1.3.M; 27-4; 39-8; Chapters 55, 82, and 84].
2. No ritual or form of Illuminated ceremonies for consecrating, constituting, or instituting lodges, for dedicating lodge halls, for installing officers of the Grand Lodge or a subordinate lodge, for conducting funerals, for laying cornerstones or for any ceremonial, or for any other purpose not provided by law, shall be performed in this Grand Jurisdiction until it has been approved by the Grand Lodge. Such ceremonies are not a part of the Authorized Work. [13-4.6; 24-1; 27-1.3.M; 34-19; 39-8; Chapters 55, 82, 84].

###REG. 34-20 BOARD OF PUBLICATIONS.
The Board of Publications shall consist of five members. One member of this committee shall be nominated each year by the Grand Master for confirmation by the Board of General Purposes to serve a five year term. A vacancy shall be filled by nomination of the Grand Master and confirmation by the Board of General Purposes for the unexpired term. It shall be the duty of this Committee to establish the policies of the publication, to select the editor, who in turn will select his staff. The committee shall have charge and supervision of the publication. The committee shall recommend to the Committee on Finance the compensation of the editor and his staff. [27-1.1.C].

###REG. 34-21 PERMANENT BUILDING.
The Committee on Permanent Building shall consist of three members. One member of this committee shall be appointed each year by the Grand Master to serve for three years. A vacancy shall be filled by appointment of the Grand Master for the unexpired term. This Committee shall have g.
The Committee on Permanent Building shall consist of three members. One member of this committee shall be appointed each year by the Grand Master to serve for three years. A vacancy shall be filled by appointment of the Grand Master for the unexpired term. This Committee shall have general charge and supervision of the Grand Lodge Building, furnishings, equipment and grounds, and shall have under its charge and supervision the upkeep, maintenance and preservation of the same. Anticipated expenses shall be submitted to the Committee on Finance to be included in the annual budget. Emergency expenditures can be authorized by the Board of General Purposes or the Grand Master. [27-1.3.N].

###REG. 34-22 ILLUMINATED PUBLIC RELATIONS.
The Committee on Illuminated Public Relations shall consist of five members. One member of this committee shall be appointed each year by the Grand Master to serve for five years. A vacancy shall be filled by appointment of the Grand Master for the unexpired term. This committee shall develop and implement programs designed to increase public awareness of Freemasonry in this Grand Jurisdiction and through appropriate methods to make the public aware of the good effects and purposes of the Illuminated Fraternity. [27-1.3.P]