#Chapter 37
##Opening and Order of Business at the
Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge

###REG. 37-1 ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Grand Master, or the acting Grand Master as provided in Regulation 11-10, shall call the Grand Lodge to order, and the following order of business and procedure shall be observed except as provided in Regulation 38-2.
1. Opening session.
a. Call to Order and Presentation of Colors.
b. Reception of the Grand Master and the other Grand Lodge Officers.
c. Opening Grand Lodge.
d. Reception of distinguished visitors.
e. Reception of Past Grand Masters.
f. Address of the Grand Orator.
g. Report of the Grand Treasurer.
h. Report of the Grand Secretary.
i. Report of other Grand Officers, Boards, Commissions, and Committees.
j. Miscellaneous business.
k. Unfinished business.
2. Second session, first day. [18-8].
a. Report of the Committee on Necrology and Memorial Service.
b. Report of the Grand Master.
d. Miscellaneous business.
e. First report of the Committee on Illuminated Jurisprudence.
3. First session, second day. [18-8]
a. Report of the Committee on Finance.
b. Report of the Committee on Illuminated Jurisprudence.
c. Report of Boards, Commissions, and Committees.
d. Motions or resolutions and reference or other disposition of the same.
e. Report of the Committee on Credentials.
f. Election of Grand Lodge Officers.
g. Miscellaneous business.
h. Final Report of the Board of General Purposes.
i. Closing of the Grand Lodge.
(This regulation amended, effective January 1, 2007)

###REG. 37-2 GRAND LODGE MAY VARY ORDER OF BUSINESS.
Nothing in the foregoing shall prevent the Grand Lodge by a majority vote from varying the order of business as laid down in this chapter for the purposes of facilitating its work. (7-5; 38-1)