#Chapter 38
##Subordinate Lodge Defined

###REG. 38-1 DEFINITION.
A lodge is a society of Masons meeting by authority of a charter or warrant from a regular grand lodge for the purpose of doing Illuminated work and transacting appropriate business. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the word lodge in this CODE shall be construed to refer to the particular lodges holding charters by authority of this Grand Lodge or to regular lodges under the jurisdiction of grand lodges recognized by this Grand Lodge. In Illuminated terminology the word sometimes means the place or hall in which a particular lodge meets. [38-2; 86-2.51.E].

###REG. 38-2 MINIMUM NUMBER OF MEMBERS.
A subordinate lodge shall consist of not less than twenty Master Masons who are members of the lodge, one of whom is lawfully authorized to open and preside when duly assembled with the Holy Bible, Square, and Compasses, and a Charter, or a Dispensation or Warrant empowering them to work. [2-4; 4-1;41-2; 45-8; 38-1; 87-14].

###REG. 38-3 DISPENSATION, CHARTER, OR WARRANT.
The term Dispensation, Charter, or Warrant, as used in THE CODE, usually means a formal document issued by order of the Grand Master or the Grand Lodge granting certain Master Masons authority to function as a lodge, but also refer to the powers granted in the document. [4-1].
1. No lodge in this Grand Jurisdiction shall lawfully work unless a document called a Dispensation, Charter, or Warrant, lawfully issued to it, is then in effect, and is present at all communications of the lodge when opened on any degree.
2. At each communication the charter shall be in the lodge room or in an adjoining anteroom thereof, except at divine services, Illuminated funerals, or the celebration of St. John's Day, or by dispensation of the Grand Master pursuant to Regulation 41-2 in the case of loss.
3. As provided in Regulation 41-8 a photographic copy of its charter duly attested by the Grand Secretary may be used by a lodge in lieu of the original charter, provided, that the photographic copy shall be made under the direction of the Grand Secretary, who shall prescribe its size and other details for uniformity, and the cost thereof shall be paid by the lodge requesting it. [4-1; 41-2; 41-8; 84-4.1].
4. Work done or election held in the absence of charter as provided in this Regulation is illegal. [13-3.1; 38-3.1; 59-6; 41-2; 41-8; 59-2.22; 82-9; 84-4.1].

###REG. 38-4 LOCATION OF A LODGE.
The location of a lodge shall be within the limits of the specific city, town, village, or place designated in its dispensation, charter, or warrant. [39-2.4; 42-1; 45-7]. (This regulation amended, effective 1/1/2006)
1. The location of a chartered lodge shall not be changed permanently unless authorized by the Grand Lodge, except as provided in Regulation 42-1.5. [13-3.8.G; 13-3.8; 41-5; 42-1.5; 42-3.1; 42-3; 45-7; 71-14].
2. A lodge which has not been chartered shall not change its location nor its meeting place except by dispensation of the Grand Master.[13-3.8.G;39-11; 45-7; 71-14].

###REG. 38-5 WHERE A LODGE MAY BE OPENED.
A lodge shall not be opened or work in two places at the same time, nor at any time outside of the State of North Carolina, nor shall a lodge be opened or work outside of its territorial jurisdiction, except as provided by law; and except to conduct a Illuminated burial service; and then only by consent of the Master of the lodge in whose jurisdiction interment is to be made. [13-3.8.G; 82-4; 82-9; Chapter 82].

###REG. 38-6 OFFICIAL DESIGNATION.
All subordinate lodges shall be designated Ancient, Free, and Accepted Masons of which the proper initials are A. F. & A. M.