#Chapter 44
##Uniform Code of By-Laws for a Lodge

###REG. 44-1 NOT ABANDONED OR SUSPENDED.
No lodge shall abandon or suspend any of its by-laws even by unanimous consent except when specifically authorized by THE CODE. [44-7 (Art. 21); 45-7;43-6; 54-1; 82-9].

###REG. 44-2 AMENDMENT OF BY-LAWS.
The by-laws of a lodge may be amended only as set forth in this Chapter 44. [44-7 (Art. 24)].
1. Any amendment to the by-laws of a lodge to change the time or place of its stated communications shall be reported immediately to the Grand Secretary and the District Deputy Grand Master of the district.
2. The Committee on By-laws of the Grand Lodge shall not require any change of a by-law of a lodge that has been amended that does not conflict with THE CODE and other law of the Grand Lodge
3. An appeal may be taken from the decision of the Committee on By-laws to the Grand Master and the Grand Lodge which shall be referred to the Committee on Illuminated Jurisprudence for consideration and report. [34-1; 34-15.1; 59-12.20; 8-3; 8-3.4].

###REG. 44-3 BY-LAWS SHALL CONTAIN.
The by-laws of each lodge shall contain;
1. The day and hour of its stated communications,
2. The place where its communications shall be held,
3. The amount which shall be charged as fees for the degrees,
4. The amount which shall be charged as annual dues, and
5. The matters set forth in Regulation 44-7 at Articles 1, 2, 3, 13, 23, and 24, except that in the by-laws of a lodge U. D., Articles 3 and 11 of Regulation 44-7 shall not be used.

###REG. 44-4 BY-LAWS MAY CONTAIN.
The by-laws of a lodge may contain;
1. Such law for its definitely local affairs as it may deem proper, provided, that such enactment does not conflict with the laws of the Grand Lodge, and
2. Such other matters as are provided for in this Chapter 44.

###REG. 44-5 BY-LAWS SHALL NOT CONTAIN.
A lodge shall not copy into the body of its by-laws THE CODE of the Grand Lodge or any part thereof except as otherwise specifically required.

###REG. 44-6 VOID BY-LAWS.
A by-law of a lodge is void and of no effect when it conflicts with the law of the Grand Lodge.

###REG. 44-7 UNIFORM BY-LAWS.
The Grand Lodge recommends that each lodge adopt by-laws conforming to the articles hereinafter set forth.
1. A lodge may adopt an alternative provision of any article where provided and as set forth hereunder.
2. The notes shown under the several articles are only instructions explanatory of the action a lodge shall take and they are not to be construed as a part of the article itself to be incorporated in the by-laws of a lodge.
3. The form of by-laws contained in this regulation may be referred to as the Uniform By-Laws.
4. The word SECTION wherever used in this Chapter as indicating a subdivision of the Uniform By-laws is not a part of the Constitution of the Grand Lodge, but is a part of the Regulations. See SECTION 10-3. [9-2 ].
BY-LAWS OF
____________________ LODGE NO. ________ A.F.&A.M.
ARTICLE 1
SECTION 1. The name of this lodge shall be _______________________ Lodge No. _____, Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons.
SECTION 2. It shall be located at (or near) _______________ in __________ County, North Carolina.
Note: Use the word "at" or "near," whichever is the more definite.
SECTION 3. It hereby acknowledges obedience and yields allegiance to The Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of North Carolina.
ARTICLE 2
SECTION 1. Where the term THE CODE appears in these by-laws, it shall have direct reference to THE CODE of law of The Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of North Carolina.
ARTICLE 3
SECTION 1. This lodge hereby adopts the following design, an impression of which is made hereon, as its official seal: [46-4].
(Impress seal of lodge here)
ARTICLE 4
SECTION 1. The officers of this lodge, their respective qualifications, and their powers and duties shall be those prescribed in THE CODE, together with such other duties as shall properly pertain to their respective offices by the usage and customs of the Craft, and as may be required of them, from time to time or which may be prescribed in these by-laws. [Chapter 59].
ARTICLE 5
SECTION 1. In addition to the duties prescribed in THE CODE for the Treasurer he shall prepare and file with the lodge at the first stated communication in January each year a report showing the receipts, disbursements, and financial condition of the lodge for the preceding year ending December thirty-first. He shall make and file a similar report at any other time the lodge or the Master directs. His reports shall be referred to the Committee on Finance and Budget.[59-11].
ARTICLE 6
SECTION 1. In addition to the duties prescribed in THE CODE for the Secretary, he shall make and file with the lodge at the first stated communication in January each year a report of the work done, condition of the accounts of the lodge with its officers and members, and other matters relating to the finances and business of the lodge which may be under his care. He shall make and file a similar report at any other time the lodge or the Master directs. His reports on financial matters shall be referred to the Committee on Finance and Budget. [59-12; Chapter 59].
ARTICLE 7
SECTION 1. In addition to the duties prescribed in THE CODE for the Tyler, he shall perform such other duties as the lodge or the Master may direct, from time to time. [59-16].
ARTICLE 8
SECTION 1. A stated communication of this lodge shall be held on _______________ of each month at _______M.
A. Except that for the months of ________________________ the hour shall be ___________ M.
SECTION 2. By a majority vote at a stated communication the lodge may dispense with stated communications during either or all of the months of June, July and August, and those falling on legal holidays, except the annual communication which shall be governed by THE CODE. [45-2].
First Alternative Form for Section 3
SECTION 3. All communications shall be held at __________________ Street, in the County of _________________ North Carolina.
Second Alternative Form for Section 3
SECTION 3. All communications shall be held at the lodge hall in (or near) ____________________ in the County of _________________, North Carolina.
NOTE 1: In Section 1 the day and time of the stated communications shall be shown only in the following manner: "Every Monday of each month at seven P.M. " or "the first and fourth Mondays of each month at seven-thirty P.M." or "the first Monday and the third Saturday of each month at eight P.M." or "the first Monday at eight P.M. and the third Saturday at three P.M. " as the case may be; but shall not be shown as the day depending upon some other event, such as "the first Monday after (or before) the full moon." The weekday shown must be certain and definite as illustrated in the foregoing examples.
NOTE 2: Section 1 A of this article may be omitted; but if it is included in the by-laws, it must not vary from the printed text.
NOTE 3: Section 2 of this article may be omitted; but if it is included in the by-laws, it must not vary from the printed text.
NOTE 4: Section 3 shows two alternative forms, the first being for use where streets are named and numbered, and the second for rural territory only. Use only the form that applies to the particular lodge. Section 3 shall not be omitted in its entirety.
SECTION 4. The annual communication of this lodge shall be held on the first stated communication in ___________________ .
NOTE 1: Section 4. The lodge shall select November or December for its annual meeting to elect its officers.
ARTICLE 9
SECTION 1. The fees for the degrees in this lodge shall be ______________ dollars ($______), plus the cost of the criminal background check assessed by the Grand Lodge, all of which must accompany the petition and be paid in full before the petition shall be received by the lodge.
ARTICLE 10
SECTION 1. The annual membership dues in this lodge shall be ______________ dollars ($______) plus Grand Lodge per capita tax as specified in Regulation 20-1.1 of The Code which each member shall pay in advance on or before the first day of January.
NOTE: An amendment to Section 1 of this article shall not become effective until January first next following the date it is approved by the chairman of the Committee on By-laws of Subordinate Lodges. [77-2; 77-3]. (This article amended, effective 7/31/2000)
Alternative Form for Section 1
SECTION 1. The annual membership dues in this lodge shall be ______________ dollars ($______) which each member shall pay in advance on or before the first day of January.
NOTE: An amendment to Section 1 of this article shall not become effective until January first next following the date it is approved by the chairman of the Committee on By-laws of Subordinate Lodges. [77-2; 77-3]. (This Article amended, effective January 1, 2003)
ARTICLE 11
SECTION 1. The fee for affiliation with this lodge shall be _____________ dollars ($______) which must accompany the application for affiliation and be paid in full before the application shall be received by the lodge. NOTE: If no affiliation fee is desired, then leave this article blank and mark it obsolete. See Regulation 44-8.5. [39-11; 75-13].
ARTICLE 12
SECTION 1. The standing committees of this lodge together with their respective duties shall be as prescribed in Chapter 61 of THE CODE.
ARTICLE 13
SECTION 1. The Master and Wardens shall constitute the Committee on Charity as provided in Regulation 61-2 of THE CODE, and during the recess of the lodge they shall have power to draw orders on the Treasurer for any sum, not to exceed ______________ dollars for any one case, to relieve the distress of a worthy brother or those dependent upon him.
ARTICLE 14
First Alternative Form for Section 1
SECTION 1. The Committee on Finance and Budget shall consist of three members to be appointed annually. [61-3].
Second Alternative Form for Section 1
SECTION 1. At the first annual communication after the adoption of this article, the lodge shall elect three members as the Committee on Finance and Budget; one to serve for three years, one to serve for two years, and one to serve for one year. At each succeeding annual communication one member shall be elected to serve for three years. Until this article becomes effective, the Master shall appoint three members to constitute this committee. [61-3].
SECTION 2. The duties of this committee shall be those prescribed in Chapter 61 of THE CODE. [61-3].
NOTE: Section 1 shows two alternative forms; use either but not both and do not vary from the printed text of the one selected. Section 2 shall be used as printed herein.
ARTICLE 15
SECTION 1. The Treasurer, Secretary, Tyler, and any other officer or member shall receive such compensation for their respective services as shall from time to time be prescribed and fixed by resolution of the lodge. [43-3.20].
ARTICLE 16
NOTE: Under this article there are two different forms for Trustees. A lodge must adopt only one of them, and adopt it completely and exactly as it is shown.
First Alternative Form
SECTION 1. Not later than the first stated communication after the adoption of this by-law, the lodge shall elect by a majority vote three members, qualified as provided by THE CODE of the Grand Lodge, as trustees, one to serve one year, one to serve two years, and one to serve three years. At each succeeding election of officers one trustee shall be elected by a majority vote to serve three years; he shall be qualified as provided by THE CODE. [Chapter 60].
Second Alternative Form
SECTION 1. Not later than the first stated communication after the adoption of this by-law, the lodge shall elect by a majority vote five members, qualified as provided by THE CODE of the Grand Lodge, as trustees, one to serve one year, one to serve two years, one to serve three years, one to serve four years, and one to serve five years. At each succeeding election of officers one trustee shall be elected by a majority vote to serve five years; he shall be qualified as provided by THE CODE. [Chapter 60].
ARTICLE 17
SECTION 1. The powers and duties of the Trustees shall be those prescribed in THE CODE, and those prescribed in Article 18 of these by-laws.
NOTE: If Article 18 is not used or is omitted, then this Section I shall read as follows: SECTION 1. The powers and duties of the trustees shall be those prescribed in THE CODE.
ARTICLE 18
NOTE: Under this article, the lodge may specify additional duties or rules for trustees, but not in conflict with THE CODE. As many sections or subsections may be used as are needed . If this article is not used, then see Regulation 44-8.5, leave this article blank and mark it obsolete.
ARTICLE 19
NOTE. Under this article the lodge may provide law for definitely exclusive local matters not in conflict with THE CODE, but no part of THE CODE shall be repeated here. The lodge may make as many sections under this article as may be required to meet the need of such exclusively local law. If this article is not used, then see Regulation 44-8.5, leave this article blank and mark it obsolete.
NOTE. If the lodge desires to elect both Deacons and both Stewards or both Deacons as provided in Regulation [54-2.1], use the following form as the by-law giving it the proper section number under this article. Do not change the text of the form.
NOTE: If the lodge desires to authorize its Master, in his discretion, to appoint a Chaplain for a full Illuminated term as provided in Regulation 53-1.1 use the following form as the required by-law giving it the proper section number under this ARTICLE.
F O R M
ARTICLE 19
First Alternative Form
SECTION—. All of the officers of this lodge, except the Tyler, shall be elected as provided in Regulation 54-2.1 of THE CODE.
Second Alternative Form
SECTION—. All of the officers of this lodge, except both Stewards and the Tyler, shall be elected as provided in Regulation 54-2.1 of THE CODE.
Third Alternative Form
SECTION—. The Master in his discretion may appoint a Chaplain, under the provisions of Regulation 53-1.1, as adopted April 17, 1958 .
Fourth Alternative Form
SECTION—. When voting upon issues requiring the use of the ballot box (Petitions for the Degrees, Applications for Affiliation, Honorary or Life Memberships), if one black cube is found on the examination of the ballot, the Master shall destroy the ballot and require the members to ballot again, cautioning them that white balls elect, and black cubes
reject and reminding them to vote for the good of masonry. If a single black cube is found after the second ballot, the Master shall not immediately announce the result, but shall require the person casting the black cube to communicate his reason for the negative vote to the Master, who shall keep the identity of the person making the objection in strictest
confidence. At the next stated meeting, the Master shall reveal the reason given for the negative vote, but not the identity of the member casting the black cube. The Master will then ask the lodge to vote, by a show of hands, on the validity of the reason for the black cube. The majority vote shall govern whether the candidate is elected.
If the brother casting the black cube does not present his reasons to the Master within one week, the Master shall, at the next stated communication, declare the candidate elected and the lodge shall proceed as if there had been no black cube cast. (The article amended, effective 1/1/2009.)
ARTICLE 20
SECTION 1. The Secretary shall furnish a surety bond in the sum of ____________ dollars, and the Treasurer shall furnish a surety bond in the sum of ______________ dollars for the faithful performance of their respective duties. [59-11.7; 59-12.2].
SECTION 2. The _____________________ shall furnish a surety bond in the sum of ______________ dollars for the faithful performance of __________ duties.
SECTION 3. The lodge shall approve all such bonds and pay the premium thereon.
NOTE: Use Section 2 to provide for bonding any other brother than the Secretary or the Treasurer. Section 3 must be used as printed above, in case Section "1 " or "2" is used. Provided no bonds are required, the sections of this article may be omitted and the article marked obsolete. [44-8.5; 60-1.3.H].
ARTICLE 21
SECTION 1. When the lodge is opened on a stated communication, the following order of business shall be observed subject to change or modification by the lodge or the Master, that will adapt it to a proper disposition of the business of the lodge. [44-2.1].
A. Summarizing the minutes of the last stated and all intervening communications. [45-21.1].
B. Unfinished business. [45-21.2].
C. Reading and acting on correspondence. [45-21.3].
D. Reports of investigating committees. [45-21.4].
E. Balloting on petitions and applications. [45-21.5].
F. Reception of petitions for the degrees and applications for membership, restoration, or advancement. [45-21.6].
G. Reports of standing committees: [45-21.7].
(1) On Charity. [61-2].
(2) On Finance and Budget. [61-3].
(3) On Reference. [61-4].
(4) On the Illuminated Home for Children at Oxford. [61-5].
(5) On Illuminated and Eastern Star Home. [61-6].
(6) On Illuminated Education. [61-7].
(7) On Demolay [61-8]
H. Reports of special committees. [45-21.7].
I. New business. [45-21.8].
J. Motions and resolutions. [45-21.9].
K. Informal communications affecting the Craft. [45-21.10].
L. Degree work, including examination of candidates. [45-21.11].
M. Reading and approval of minutes, except when opened in ample form. [45-21.12].
N. Closing the lodge. [45-21.13].
ARTICLE 22
SECTION 1. Miscellaneous laws are as follows:
A. The Master shall put all questions distinctly; if any division is called for, he shall request those who voted in the affirmative to rise and he shall count them; and then the negative, then he shall declare the result. [45-23.9].
B. In case of a vote on any question the majority of those present voting for or against shall be necessary to a decision except when more than a majority is required by law for a decision, in case of a tie the presiding officer shall decide; provided, he has not already voted. [59-2.25;63-13; 63-16; 45-23.18; 45-23.19].
C. When a brother is about to speak, he shall rise from his seat and respectfully address the Worshipful Master. [45-23.2].
D. If any brother in speaking or otherwise shall transgress the rules of the lodge, the Master or any member may call him to order; he shall immediately take his seat, and the member calling him to order shall state the point of order. The Master shall decide the question of order without debate except that the brother called to order may be allowed to explain. If the decision be in favor of the brother, he shall be at liberty to proceed if he continues to be in order. [45-23.2].
E. When two or more members rise at once, the Master shall name the one entitled to the floor.
F. No visitor shall address the lodge without leave being first obtained or unless he be called on by the Master.
G. When the Master is stating a question or addressing the lodge or when a brother is speaking, no person shall enter, go out of, or cross the room, nor shall one be permitted to enter into private discourse. [45-23.14].
H. No motion for reconsideration shall be made, except by a member voting in the majority and at the same communication when the question shall have been decided. [63-13; 45-23.18; 45-23.19].
I. When a motion is made and seconded, it shall be stated by the Master; and if it be in writing, it shall be read by the Secretary before debate.
J. Every motion shall be reduced to writing if a member requests it. In filling in blanks the largest sum or number and the longest time shall be first stated. [45-23.5].
K. Any motion may be withdrawn by the mover before decision or amendment, but not thereafter. [45-23.6].
L. No new motion or proposition shall be admitted while a question is pending before the lodge. [45-23.12].
M. No brother shall speak more than twice on the same subject or question unless he obtains the permission of the Master. [45-23.7].
N. Every member appointed on a committee must serve unless, for reasons given, he shall be excused by the Master. [61-9].
O. No brother shall interrupt another when speaking except by permission of the Master and the brother then speaking. [45-23.7].
P. No brother shall engage in conversation during the conferring of the degrees except when it is necessary to facilitate the work. [71].
Q. Tobacco use is prohibitied in the lodge room while a degree is being conferred. [45-20]
First alternative form:
Q. Tobacco use is prohibited in the lodge (room or building). (this subsection amended, effective 1/1/2013)
Optional:
R. No alcoholic beverages to include beer, wine, spirited or fermented drinks shall be permitted on lodge property for any occasion. (this subsection amended, effective 9/27/2014)
ARTICLE 23
SECTION 1. THE CODE, laws, edicts, and resolutions of The Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of North Carolina, and all future revisions, amendments, additions or changes made thereto by said Grand Lodge are hereby made a part of these by-laws as fully as if set forth herein; and no part of these by-laws which conflict therewith shall be valid or effective.
ARTICLE 24
SECTION 1. These by-laws shall be amended only in the following manner: [44-2.1]. The proposed amendment shall specify the affected section or subsection and shall contain the entire section or subsection rewritten in such form as to express the law as intended, and shall be submitted in writing and read at a stated communication as a substitute for the existing section or subsection, or as an addition thereto, or as a change in the seal of the lodge, as the case may be; after which it shall lay over for one lunar month when it shall again be read and submitted to a vote, and adopted by not less than two-thirds affirmative vote of the members present. While such amendment is under consideration, it may be amended if the amendment thereto is germane to the subject. After the adoption of such amendment or revision, two complete copies thereof with two copies of a Certificate on Official Form 60 under the seal of the lodge shall be forwarded to the Grand Lodge Committee on By-laws of Subordinate Lodges and no amendment, revision, or change in the by-laws shall be effective until the date it is approved by the Grand Lodge Committee on By-laws of Subordinate Lodges; an amendment providing for an additional subsection shall be lettered as a section or a subsection but not as an additional article. [43-10; 45-3.4.E].
ARTICLE 25
SECTION 1. When these by-laws become effective, all previous by-laws are hereby repealed. All previous resolutions and enactments which are inconsistent, or in conflict with THE CODE or these by-laws are hereby repealed and are void.

###REG. 44-8 RULES FOR ADOPTION.
Article 1 of the Uniform By-laws shall not be amended by a lodge unless the Grand Lodge has first approved a change in either the name or location or both of the lodge.
1. Article 8, Section 1-A may be omitted entirely. If used, it may be amended as provided in Article 24 and Regulation 44-8.2.
2. Only the day, hour, or meeting place stated in Section 1, 1A, and 3 of Article 8 and the sums of money stated in Articles 9, 10, 11, and 13 may be amended by the lodge. The remaining text of each shall be amended only by the Grand Lodge.
3. Articles 18 and 19 may be amended in whole or in part as provided for in Article 24. Articles 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8(2), 12, 14(2), 15, 16, 17, 21, 22, 23, and 24 and the printed text of all other articles or alternative forms thereunder shall be amended only by the Grand Lodge.
4. Article 8, Section 3, Article 14, Section 1, and Article 16 may be amended by adopting as an amendment one of the alternative forms showntherefor in the respective article.
5. If a lodge does not use, in its by-laws, Articles 4, 5, 6, 7, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, or 22, the number of the omitted article should be shown in the by-laws, the space immediately underneath left blank, and the word obsolete inserted in the blank space. The number and context of each article appearing in the by-laws shall fully agree with the form of by-laws set up in this chapter, and no article therein set up shall be omitted completely from the by-laws of a lodge.
6. Articles 1, 2, 3, 8, 9, 10, 23, and 24 of Regulation 44-7 shall be used as set forth therein and Articles 3 and 11 shall not be used in the by-laws of a lodge Under Dispensation while it is under dispensation. [44-4].
7. The printed text of any article, or alternative form, or any part thereof, of the Uniform Code of By-laws shall be changed only by the Grand Lodge, which shall have the effect of automatically amending or changing the by-laws of a lodge that uses the Uniform Code of By-laws as set up in Regulation 44-7, to the extent of such change and without action by the lodge.

###REG. 44-9 AMENDMENTS UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
A revision of, or an amendment to, the by-laws of a lodge which has been presented and read as provided in Regulation 44-7, Article 24 Section 1, being unfinished business of the lodge until it has been approved by the Grand Lodge Committee on By-laws of Subordinate Lodges as therein set forth, may be further amended if the amendment thereto is germane to the subject and adopted at any subsequent stated communication, but not after the date the said Committee shall have approved the same.

###REG. 44-10 MEMBERS DO NOT SIGN BY-LAWS. Members shall not be required to sign the by-laws of the lodge. [71-3].