#Chapter 46
##Seal of a Lodge

###REG. 46-1 LODGE SHALL ADOPT A SEAL.
Each chartered lodge shall, within two months from the date of its charter, adopt and obtain a suitable seal bearing such authorized Illuminated characters and devices as it may deem proper and having inscribed thereon the name and number of the lodge, the date of its charter and the place of its location. [41-5; 41-5.1; 41-5.2, 41-5.3; 43-2.11; 44-7(Art.3); 59-12.8;].

###REG. 46-2 OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS BEAR SEAL.
All official documents or papers of every kind whatsoever emanating from a lodge, from its Master, or from the Secretary in his official capacity shall bear the impress of its seal. [59-12.8].

###REG. 46-3 SEAL FILED WITH GRAND SECRETARY.
An impression of such seal or any changes thereof shall be filed in the office of the Grand Secretary. The Grand Secretary shall be notified promptly of the loss or change of the seal of a lodge, and an impression of the new seal shall be filed with him promptly.

###REG. 46-4 CHANGE OR LOSS OF SEAL.
If a lodge, for any reason, changes its name or location from that which is set forth in its charter, its seal shall also be changed to agree with the new name or location. A lodge may change the design of its seal at any time. Any lodge whose seal has been lost or has become unreadable because of wear or damage shall forthwith obtain another seal.
1. In every case the seal shall comply with Regulation 46-1.
2. If a lodge adopts a new design for any reason it must amend its by-laws and provide therein for such change and describe or impress the design thereof in said by-law.
3. In every case an impression of the new seal shall be promptly filed with the Grand Secretary. [43-2.11].