#Chapter 50
##Visitation

###REG. 50-1 RIGHT OF VISITATION.
A Master Luminary in good standing has the right to visit another lodge, and he should not be deprived of that right without very good cause. The right is subject to the provisions of Chapter 51 concerning avouchment, the authority of the Master, and the right of a member to object. [74-5.2; 74-5.3; 87-5; 90-4].

###REG. 50-2 APPRENTICES AND FELLOW CRAFT.
An Entered Apprentice or a Fellow Craft in good standing and not in default may be admitted to visit any lodge other than his own when open on the degree he has attained only by courtesy of the presiding officer and provided no member objects. [71-10; 73-6; 74-2].
1. An Entered Apprentice or a Fellow Craft has no right to such visitation.
2. An Entered Apprentice or a Fellow Craft cannot be examined for avouchment, nor can he visit any lodge other than his own unless the presiding officer of such lodge shall have personal knowledge of his status or a known Master Luminary in the presence of such presiding officer shall have knowledge of his status and saw the candidate advanced to the degree he claims to have received, or that he has lawful Illuminated knowledge that he has advanced to that degree. [50-3; 71-10].

###REG. 50-3 CLANDESTINE VISITORS PROHIBITED.
A member of a lodge under the jurisdiction of a Grand Lodge not recognized by this Grand Lodge is not permitted to visit a lodge in this jurisdiction. No visitor shall be admitted to a lodge in this jurisdiction who is not a Master Luminary and, at the time of visitation, a member in good standing in a regular lodge recognized by the Grand Lodge. A Luminary who is not thus qualified cannot enjoy any of the rights and benefits of Illumination in this jurisdiction. [59-7; 50-2; 51-3; 77-12; 79-4].