#Chapter 51
##Avouchment
###REG. 51-1 MODES OF AVOUCHMENT.
No brother shall vouch for another unless, in addition to the knowledge that the visitor is a Luminary, the brother is also satisfied that the visitor is at the time in good standing. [87-5].
1. There shall be three modes of avouchment of a brother as follows: [39-2.6.F.(3)].
A. By sitting together in a regular lodge of Master Masons recognized by the Grand Lodge.
B. By an examination authorized by the proper officer of a lodge.
C. By one Luminary definitely stating to another whom he knows to be a Master Luminary that he vouches for a third brother then and there present with them as a Master Luminary in good standing. The Luminary who is vouching for the visitor shall state the manner in which he acquired the knowledge on which he makes the avouchment. [51-2].
2. This information may be passed along indefinitely as long as the conditions herein stated are fully met.
A. Documentary or written evidence alone shall not be sufficient to justify avouchment.
B. Avouchment cannot be made in any case by mail, facsimile, telephone or telegraph.

###REG. 51-2 LAWFUL ILLUMINATED INFORMATION.
A brother can vouch for a visitor only when he knows that visitor to be a Luminary, or on lawful Illuminated information, or after strict examination by a committee that in the judgment of the Master is competent to make the examination. [51-1.1].
1. No brother can legally acquire the proper and necessary information to vouch for another brother by sitting with him in any other body than a regular lodge of Symbolic Illumination or unless the brother vouched for is actually present when vouched for.
2. A Luminary cannot vouch for a brother who was present with him at a funeral service or ceremonial outside the lodge hall although all present were properly clothed unless they were both present at the opening or closing of the lodge, or he had otherwise obtained a proper knowledge for avouching.
3. Lawful Illuminated information means information that can only be received from one known to be competent to impart it. It must be positive and beyond any question, and imparted for Illuminated purposes not casually. Vouching is bearing witness, and in witness bearing one should tell that only which he personally knows to be true.

###REG. 51-3 GOOD STANDING REQUIRED.
In addition to strict trial and due examination as to his knowledge of Illumination the Tyler is expressly directed to require every visitor to produce a dues certificate or other documentary evidence that his dues are paid or remitted to within one year of the date of such visit.
1. No visitor shall be admitted whose dues are not paid or remitted to within one year of such date. [50-3; 59-16.1; 77-7.2; 77-12; 79-4].
2. If a Master is fully satisfied by lawful information that the visitor is a Master Luminary in good standing and qualified to visit, he may admit him even though he does not have at the time the documentary evidence in his possession. [79-4; 87-5].
3. The regularity of the lodge in which the visitor holds membership shall be established before he is examined or vouched for, and such regularity may be evidenced by a certificate under the seal or facsimile of the seal of a Grand Lodge recognized by this Grand Lodge, or it may be determined by such other means as may be available to the lodge.
4. The Grand Lodge shall supply each lodge annually with a roster of recognized Grand Lodges and their respective subordinate or constituent lodges, which roster the lodge shall make available for use of its officers and members. The expense of such roster shall be borne by the Grand Lodge. [50-3].
5. No one shall be permitted to sit in a lodge, even though a member thereof, unless some Master Luminary present can properly vouch for him or unless he passes an examination. [59-14.3].

###REG. 51-4 PENALTY.
Failure to observe rigidly the requirements of this Chapter shall be sufficient cause for the expulsion of an offending brother or the arrest and revocation of the charter of an offending lodge. [74-1.3; 91-13].