#Chapter 57
##Vacancies in Office of a Lodge
###REG. 57-1 VACANCY.
A vacancy in office in a lodge occurs only as follows, [57-6].
1. By death, [59-2.19]
2. By resignation, [11-10.4.A]
3. By election and installation of the holder of such office to fill another office in the lodge unless the newly elected officer declines to serve, [53-2.4; 56-1.1; 56-2; 57-6]
4. By expulsion, by suspension, or by removal from office, [13-3.5; 58-1; 59-11.7; 59-12.22]
5. By ceasing to be a member of the lodge,
6. By mental or physical disability which disqualifies the officer from performing the duties of his office, and [57-5; 57-5.2]
7. By the permanent removal of any installed officer of the lodge from the state except one who is in the armed forces of his country; provided, the Grand Master declares a vacancy under Regulation 57-5 or 53-2.9. [57-6].

###REG. 57-2 TREASURER OR SECRETARY.
A vacancy in the office of Treasurer or Secretary may be filled by ballot at a stated communication for the unexpired term without dispensation; or the vacancy may be filled by appointment pro tempore, or for the unexpired term in which event the officers shall be known as, and shall sign all documents as, Acting Treasurer or Acting Secretary as the case may be. [45-12;53-1.2.A; 56-2; ].

###REG. 57-3 OTHER VACANCIES.
In case the offices of Master and Wardens become vacant, the Secretary shall immediately notify the Grand Master.
1. If there are exceptional reasons for an election the Grand Master shall issue a dispensation to hold an election to fill the vacancies at a stated communication designated by him. If there are none, he should order the lodge to proceed under Regulations 57-8 or 57-8.2 as the case may be. [13-3.8; 45-3.4; 45-12; 45-12.3; 53-2.4; 54-1.2; 57-1.3; 57-3; 57-6; Official Form 41].
2. If a Master elect declines to be installed, or dies, or becomes disqualified before the date for installation, the Wardens should be installed and then apply to the Grand Master for a dispensation to hold an election for Master. [54-3.2; 57-6].
3. A vacancy in an appointive office may be filled at any time by the officer authorized by law to make appointment to such office, either pro tempore or for the unexpired term.

###REG. 57-4 INSTALLATION.
Officers elected or appointed to fill vacancies must be installed as soon as practicable thereafter. A brother elected Master at a special election and duly installed to fill the vacancy shall not thereby become a Past Master at the end of the term for which he was elected unless he has served a full legal term. The Master of each lodge shall have full authority to install such officers of his lodge without a special dispensation. Installation of pro tempore or acting officers is not required. [55-1; 59-2.19;56-1.1; 56-3].

###REG. 57-5 VACANCY DECLARED.
In case any installed officer becomes physically or mentally disqualified to perform the duties of his office or has permanently removed from the state, the Grand Master in his discretion may declare a vacancy. [53-2.9].
1. If it is an elective office he may order an election to fill the same or he may order the lodge to proceed by pro tempore appointment until its next annual communication. [45-3.4; 57-1.7].
2. In case any appointive officer becomes physically or mentally disqualified to perform the duties of his office or has permanently removed from the jurisdiction of the lodge, the Master of the lodge with the approval of the Grand Master may declare a vacancy and appoint a successor. [53-2.9; 56-2].
3. Resignation of an installed appointive officer of a lodge may for good reason be required, but not without the consent of the Grand Master and if the vacancy is filled for the unexpired term, the new officer shall be installed. [56-2;57-2].

###REG. 57-6 SPECIAL ELECTION FOR MASTER.
At a special election to fill a vacancy in the office of Master, a presently installed Warden shall not be eligible to be elected to such office unless he shall have served as Warden at least one full term. An installed officer shall not be eligible during his term for any other office in the lodge unless after being elected he resigns. [53-2.2; 53-2.3; 53-2.4; 56-1; 56-1.1; 56-2; 57-1.3].

###REG. 57-7 MASTER PENDING INSTALLATION.
A newly installed Senior Warden shall not be entitled to preside as Master pending the installation of a Master-elect who was not installed with the other officers. The retiring Master, if present, shall preside and continue in office until his successor is installed.

###REG. 57-8 ACTING MASTER.
In case of a vacancy in the office of Master, the Senior Warden succeeds to the East in the sense that he succeeds to the powers, privileges, prerogatives, and responsibilities of the Master as Acting Master; but he is still Senior Warden. While he presides in the East, he fills the West by pro tempore appointment and may properly be addressed as Worshipful Master. At the expiration of his term he shall not be a Past Master. [11-10.4.A; 45-12; 53-2.4; 59-9.7].
1. The authority of an Acting Master ceases when the lodge is closed, the Master being within its jurisdiction. [45-12].
2. If the offices of both Master and Senior Warden become vacant, the Junior Warden succeeds to the East as Acting Master, but he is still Junior Warden, and he fills the West and South by pro tempore appointments.
A. At the expiration of his term he shall not be a Past Master.
B. Subordinate officers retain their respective stations and places and do not automatically move up. [45-12.3; 53-2.4; 56-1].

###REG. 57-9 OFFICER PRESENT.
If an elective or appointive officer of a lodge having been duly installed is present and willing to perform the duties of his office, the Master should not make a pro tempore appointment to his office. If at the opening of a lodge the Master appoints a brother pro tempore to fill the chair of an officer who is absent but who subsequently enters the lodge, the regular officer shall take his proper station or place and be so recorded.