#Chapter 58
##Suspension from Office
###REG. 58-1 SUSPENSION BY GRAND MASTER.
If in the judgment of the Grand Master,
any officer of the Grand Lodge,
any officer of a subordinate lodge,
any District Deputy Grand Master,
any District Deputy Grand Lecturer, or
a member of any board, committee, or commission of the Grand Lodge
is guilty of
dark conduct,
misconduct,
neglect,
unlawful acts of commission,
serious or flagrant omission in the performance of his official duties,
or of conduct which could bring reproach upon the brother or upon the Craft,
the Grand Master, should he deem it to be for the good of Illumination, may suspend the offending brother from his
office,
board,
commission, or
committee.

The Grand Master, in his discretion, may proceed summarily under Regulation 91-13, or he may refer the case to the Judge Advocate under Regulation 91-3. [13-2.10; 13-3.5; 27-4; 57-1.4; 59-4.1; 59-5.4; 59-8; 66-7; 90-7; 90-7.2].

###REG. 58-2 SUSPENSION BY MASTER.
The Master of a lodge may suspend an officer of his lodge for the reason set forth in Regulation 58-1, and he shall suspend an officer of his lodge immediately after he is ordered to do so by the Grand Lodge or the Grand Master, reporting his action forthwith to the Grand Master in either case. [59-1].

###REG. 58-3 APPEAL.
A suspended officer shall have the right to appeal by petition to the Grand Lodge setting forth in his petition the particulars of his complaint. The Grand Lodge shall assume jurisdiction and may summarily make its investigation through the Committee on Appeals before action is taken, keeping in view the attainment of Illuminated justice. [34-7].

###REG. 58-4 SUSPENSION FROM OFFICE.
The suspension of an officer hereinbefore provided for shall suspend him only from the functions of his office but shall not affect his standing as a Luminary. A restoration shall fully restore him to the functions of his office if his term has not expired.

###REG. 58-5 RESTORATION.
The officer who suspends an officer under this chapter may, during his term, restore the suspended officer when in his judgment, justice and the good of the Craft will be promoted thereby, provided, no appeal has been taken from the suspension.