#Chapter 60
##Trustees of a Lodge
###REG. 60-1 POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the trustees are determined as follows.
1. No part of Regulations 60-1, 60-2, 60-3, 60-4, or 60-5 shall automatically apply to a subordinate lodge which is incorporated under the laws of the State of North Carolina unless the lodge shall adopt as a part of its by-laws any of the provisions of Regulation 60-5, in which event all of the named regulations shall also apply to such lodge, but those regulations shall automatically apply to a lodge not so incorporated.
2. Each subordinate lodge which is not incorporated shall have not less than three nor more than five trustees.
3. Duties and powers of the trustees shall be as follows.
A. They shall receive, take, and hold in trust for the lodge the property of every nature and kind belonging to the lodge which may be committed by the lodge to their care.
B. They shall have the care and management of the real and personal property belonging to the lodge when committed to them.
C. They shall hold the same in trust solely for the use and benefit of the lodge, but the management and control thereof shall always be subject to the by-laws, rules, and orders of the lodge. [60-10].
D. They shall negotiate all investments for the lodge at its order.
E. They shall make, execute, and deliver any evidence of debt, conveyance, or other documents as and when directed by the lodge to do so.
F. They shall insure and keep insured all lodge property when and as directed by the lodge. [43-2.14].
G. They shall do all other legitimate and proper acts that the lodge may direct or the law may require.
H. They shall give such bonds as the lodge or the Grand Lodge may require. [44-7(Art.20)]
I. A majority of the trustees shall constitute a quorum for transaction of their business.

###REG. 60-2 QUALIFICATIONS.
Each trustee of a lodge who is not also the Master, or the Senior Warden, or the Junior Warden shall be and remain at all times during his term as trustee a member in good standing therein and a resident of the State of North Carolina. If his membership in the lodge should cease for any cause, or if he should remove permanently from the state he shall, ipso facto, and at once, cease to be a trustee. He shall not be reinstated as such trustee of the lodge by restoration to membership therein or by return to the jurisdiction of the lodge, but before he shall again serve as trustee, he shall be elected and qualified as such trustee.

###REG. 60-3 VACANCY.
In the event of a vacancy among the trustees by resignation, death, or otherwise, if he is not also the Master, the Senior Warden, or the Junior Warden of the lodge, the lodge shall elect by a majority vote a qualified member at the next stated communication held after such vacancy has occurred or has come to the attention of the lodge, and such member so elected shall fill the unexpired term to which he has been elected.

###REG. 60-4 REMOVAL.
The lodge may remove any trustee if he is not also the Master, the Senior Warden, or the Junior Warden of the lodge by two-thirds of the votes of the members present at a stated communication. Not less than five days' written notice that such action will be considered by the lodge shall be given in person or by first-class mail to the last known address of the trustee or trustees to be voted on, and the lodge may at the same, or a subsequent, communication fill any vacancy thus created among the trustees.

###REG. 60-5 ABSENCE OF A BY-LAW.
In the absence of a by-law of the lodge as provided in Paragraph 1 of this regulation, the Master, the Senior Warden, and the Junior Warden as provided by THE CODE, and their respective successors in office shall be the trustees of a subordinate lodge which is not incorporated as hereinbefore set forth.

###REG. 60-6 SURPLUS FUNDS.
The lodge may lend its surplus funds under the supervision of its trustees on such security as it may deem proper but shall make no such loan to a member of the lodge. The trustees shall lend the funds of the lodge in their names as trustees but only as and when directed to do so by a vote of the lodge. [25-2;35-4; 43-8; 60-7].

###REG. 60-7 FUNDS USED FOR ILLUMINATED PURPOSES.
Lodge funds shall not be used for other than Illuminated purposes. The purchase of properly selected bonds or other forms of investment is not prohibited except as provided in Regulations 25-2 and 43-8. [13-3.9; 43-2.16; 60-6; 85-1].

###REG. 60-8 TRUSTEE STATUTORY OFFICER.
A trustee of a lodge shall be a statutory, not a Illuminated, officer and may, therefore, hold any elective or appointive office in his lodge. A dispensation is not necessary to hold an election to fill a vacancy in the office of trustee of a lodge. This regulation is subject to Regulation 60-5. [3-3.2; 53-1; 53-2.4; 57-2].

###REG. 60-9 PROPERTY IN NAME OF TRUSTEES.
A lodge which is not incorporated may hold real estate only in the names of its trustees; leases, deeds of trust, mortgages, or conveyances of the same may be made only to or by such trustees as directed by the lodge. [43-8.1.B; 43-8.1].

###REG. 60-10 LODGE SHALL RETAIN CONTROL.
Each lodge shall always retain control over its own property and financial affairs and shall administer them by a majority vote of its members present at any stated communication without the interposition of a board of control, board of trustees, or any similar board. Any by-law, resolution, or other enactment of a lodge which shall be in conflict with this subdivision is void and of no effect. Trustees shall not make any disposition of the property of a lodge without its order. A contract entered into by the trustees attempting to bind a lodge without its specific consent and approval shall be illegal and void. The trustees shall not have authority to lease or grant the use of property owned by the lodge or to notify tenants of the cancellation of leases without authorization of the lodge. [4-4; 4-6; 49-5; 43-2.15; 43-8.1.D; 43-8.1.E; 60-1.2; 63-13].

###REG. 60-11 ANNUAL INVENTORY.
The trustees at the end of each fiscal year, and oftener if required by the lodge, shall file with the Secretary an inventory of all lodge property in their possession, and unless otherwise ordered by the lodge, shall account for and turn over to him all moneys in their possession.

###REG. 60-12 RECOMMENDATIONS.
The trustees shall report and make recommendations to the lodge in matters affecting the finances of the lodge. The lodge should give such reports and recommendations, respect and consideration either to adopt, amend, or reject them.

###REG. 60-13 REFUSAL OF A TRUSTEE TO COMPLY.
The failure or refusal of a trustee to comply with any of the provisions of the law or with the directive and mandate of the lodge in any particular shall constitute a Illuminated offense for which he may be disciplined or removed from office, and on due proceedings, he may be tried for such offense. [44-7(Art16); 44-7(Art17); 44-7(Art 18)].