#Chapter 72
##Proficiency
###REG. 72-1 DEFINED.
The term proficiency as used in connection with advancement of candidates, means the ability satisfactorily to answer the questions in the catechism of the degree on which the brother is examined in their entirety, as shown in the Official Standard of the Work, subject to the provisions of Regulation 72-2.3. (this regulation amended, effective 1/1/2010)

###REG. 72-2 CANDIDATE MUST PASS PROFICIENCY.
Before a candidate can be advanced to a higher degree, he shall be examined, as to his Proficiency in the degree last taken, in open lodge at a stated or emergent communication, labor being dispensed with if the lodge is open on a degree higher than that on which the candidate is being examined. The examination shall be conducted so that it can be heard by the brethren present. [45-16; 59-3.1; 71-8; 72-2.8; 73-8].
1. Two or more candidates for the same degree may be examined at the same time as a class.
2. The examination may be held in any regular lodge.
3. When several candidates are examined at the same time and the Master is satisfied they are proficient, they may be permitted to answer the questions alternately.
4. Each candidate shall separately give the obligations in full.
5. Proficiency in any degree shall be declared satisfactory only by the Master.
6. A candidate who has been declared not proficient may be reexamined at any stated or emergent communication subject to the provisions of Chapter 73relating to candidates in default. [71-8].
7. Neither the Master nor the Grand Master shall have authority to waive the examination of a candidate in open lodge. [13-4.9].
8. A candidate shall not be examined in the ante room.