#Chapter 77
##Dues
###REG. 77-1 MINIMUM DUES.
Each lodge shall fix in its by-laws and shall collect such annual dues from its membership as may be necessary to enable it to maintain itself and discharge all of its duties and obligations. [5-2.2]. (This regulation amended, effective 1/1/2004 )

###REG. 77-2 CHANGES.
A lodge may increase or reduce its dues but only by an amendment to its by-laws.
1. Such amendment shall not become effective until January first, next following the date of its approval by the Grand Lodge Committee on By-laws of Subordinate Lodges. [43-10; 44-7(Art. 10, Sec. 1; Art. 24, Sec. 1)].
2. The annual membership dues as provided in the by-laws of the lodge which are in effect on the first day of January in any year shall be the dues payable by each member of the lodge for that calendar year.
A. A brother who becomes a member of a lodge after February first may be charged a pro rata part of a full year's dues. [77-13]
B. The amount of dues charged a new member for the current year shall be the whole annual dues or pro rata of annual dues, at option of the lodge. [20-1.1].
C. A brother whose dues for the current year are fully paid and who affiliates with a lodge after January first shall not be required to pay dues to the lodge with which he has affiliated, thus paying dues twice for the same period.
D. If he had not previously paid dues for the full current year but only for a part thereof, he may be required to pay to the lodge with which he affiliates the proper pro rata part of dues as fixed in its by-laws together with any affiliation fee the lodge may charge. [77-13].
3. If a member pays his dues in advance of the current year, and the lodge shall thereafter increase or decrease its dues, the member shall not be absolved from liability for additional dues for such period and shall pay the same. The lodge shall promptly adjust any overpayment made by him.
4. In the event the dues of a member shall be paid in advance of the current year at the time of his death, demit, or other termination of his membership, such dues shall be refunded by the lodge. [77-2; 77-10; 77-13; 79).
5. Obsolete (This section amended, effective 1/1/2004 )

###REG. 77-3 WHEN DUE.
All dues of members to subordinate lodges shall be due and payable annually in advance on January first each year. [77-2; 77-13].

###REG. 77-4 ONLY MASTER MASONS PAY DUES.
Only Master Masons shall be liable for dues and subject to discipline for nonpayment thereof. The payment of dues is a specific obligation of each member.

###REG. 77-5 CANCELLATION OF DUES.
A lodge shall have the right to cancel the dues of an excluded brother and restore him to membership, subject to the provisions of Regulation 78-1, and grant him a demit. The dues of a brother who has been suspended or expelled, can be cancelled only by a unanimous vote of the lodge. The Master may require a written ballot. [77-20.3; 78-2.1]. (This regulation amended, effective 1/1/2004 )
1. The dues of any other member may be cancelled by a majority vote. [77-20.3].
2. Action to cancel dues shall be taken only at a stated communication. [77-5.3].
3. A lodge shall have the right to cancel dues owing by a member, but that will not relieve the lodge from payment of all dues and assessments levied by the Grand Lodge. [77-5].
4. The Grand Master shall not have the power to cancel dues or assessments of the Grand Lodge or dues of a lodge. [7-5; 13-4.12; 13-4.13].

###REG. 77-6 NO POSTHUMOUS PAYMENT.
A lodge shall not cancel the dues, or receive the same from the family or friends of a dead brother, who died under exclusion for nonpayment of dues, and bury him with Illuminated honors. [74-6.5; 77-6.1; 82-2.5].
1. A brother excluded for nonpayment of dues shall not be reinstated after death.
2. When the record of the exclusion shows that the proceeding was a nullity, the fact that the brother died in good standing may be officially declared.
3. If the exclusion occurred more than one year prior to the decease of such brother and no attempt has been made by him to be restored in that length of time, he shall be deemed to have had the full knowledge thereof and to have concurred therein, and the action of the lodge shall not then be declared void. [74-6.5; 77-6; 82-2.5].

###REG. 77-7 DUES CARD.
All lodges shall use the same form of official receipt card as provided for in Chapter 88 and they shall use no other form. [59-12.4].
1. No official receipt card shall be issued to any member unless, and until, his dues for the entire year represented by the card issued are fully paid, or unless they have been remitted. [77-2.2.A; 77-12].
2. The official receipt card shall not be valid as a certificate or as documentary evidence of membership unless it is signed in his own handwriting by the brother to whom it is issued nor unless the seal of the lodge issuing it is either impressed thereon, or a facsimile thereof is printed or stamped thereon, and the receipt card bears the name of the secretary of said lodge in his own handwriting or a facsimile thereof. [46-2; 51-3; 59-12.4; 88-1].
3. The official receipt card shall be evidence of membership and shall be valid as a certificate of good standing expring December 31 of the year issued.

###REG. 77-8 NO OTHER LEVIES OR ASSESSMENTS.
A lodge shall not levy or collect an assessment upon its members for any purpose. Funds to purchase real estate, to build or repair a lodge hall, to furnish a lodge room, or to pay debts incurred in any such undertakings may be contributed voluntarily or they shall be collected as dues which may be increased to meet expenditures of this kind. [43-3.17; 85-1].

###REG. 77-9 VOLUNTARY PLEDGES ARE NOT DUES.
A voluntary pledge to a building fund or toward the liquidation of the fixed charges of a Illuminated temple shall not be an assessment, nor shall it be considered dues for the nonpayment of which a brother may be excluded or denied a demit. [85-1].

###REG. 77-10 SUSPENDED, EXPELLED, OR EXCLUDED.
Lodge dues accrue during membership only. A suspended, expelled, or excluded Luminary shall not be liable for dues while he is not affiliated. [74-5.4; 74-6.3;77-2.3].

###REG. 77-11 REVIEW.
In general, membership dues shall be a matter within the jurisdiction of the lodge subject to review by the Grand Master or the Grand Lodge for any abuse of power except it may remit the dues of those members who have received their fifty year awards on a year to year motion of the lodge (This regulation amended effective January 1, 1998).

###REG. 77-12 LIFE MEMBERS.
A lodge may create life members only as provided for in Chapter 79, and as long as such brother shall be a member, the lodge shall issue the prescribed annual dues receipt card to him as evidence of his continued membership therein and that he has not been suspended or expelled. [50-3; 51-3; 79-3; 79-4].
1. A lodge shall not provide that a member, after paying his dues, or having continuous membership for any number of years, shall be thereby exempt from the further payment of dues. [77-12.2].
2. A lodge shall not issue a life receipt for dues or a life membership in consideration of the payment by a member of a sum of money, but shall honor endowed memberships purchased by its members pursuant to Regulation 77-14. [77-11; 79-1; Chapter 79].

###REG. 77-13 UNIFORM DUES.
The annual dues charged by a lodge shall be uniform, each member paying the same amount, except for any differences that may result from the purchase of endowed memberships as provided in Regulation 77-14 and 77-26 In the regulation of dues by way of exemption, cancellation, increase, or reduction, a lodge shall not show preference or favoritism to any class or group of its members, but shall treat all members alike except members in the armed forces of the United States and members who have received their fifty year awards. (This regulation amended, effective January 1, 1998)[Chapter 77]

###REG. 77-14 BROTHER UNABLE TO PAY.
A lodge should not exclude a member for nonpayment of dues when his failure to pay dues is wholly on account of his pecuniary inability, but it may do so.
1. Inability to pay does not necessarily mean lack of sufficient funds. It may arise from other causes such as inaccessibility of the brother and his inability to pay as in the case of a brother in the armed services.
2. A mentally incompetent member of a lodge shall not be excluded for nonpayment of dues. No dues shall be charged by a lodge against a member who is in the opinion of the Master and Wardens, mentally incompetent. [77-13]. (this subsection amended, effective January 1, 2009)
3. The lodge is the determining factor as to what constitutes inability to pay and is the final judge thereof.

###REG. 77-15 MASTER NOT EXCLUDED.
A Master of a lodge shall not be excluded for nonpayment of dues during his term of office. [59-7].

###REG. 77-16 CHANGE OF ADDRESS.
It shall be the duty of a member of a lodge to notify the Secretary of his lodge immediately of any change in his mail address. [52-3.10].

###REG. 77-17 DELINQUENT MEMBERS, FIRST NOTICE. Any member failing to pay his dues on or before March first each year shall be deemed delinquent, except when his dues are cancelled by the lodge on account of inability to pay. If a check or draft is given in payment of dues and it is returned unpaid, the dues remain unpaid. On or before March first each year the Secretary shall send to each member of his lodge whose dues are not paid in full, a notice of the total amount then owing.

###REG. 77-18 EXCLUSION FOR NONPAYMENT.
Exclusion for nonpayment of dues shall be a suspension from all of the rights, privileges, and benefits of Illumination until such time as the brother is restored to membership. A strict compliance with the provisions of Regulation 77-19 is necessary before a lodge may exclude a member for nonpayment of dues. [Chapter 78].

###REG. 77-19 OFFICIAL NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY.
During the third quarter of each year the Secretary shall forward to each member of the lodge who then owes any amount for dues an Official Notice of Delinquency by first-class mail in a sealed envelope with return address thereon. (This regulation amended, effective 1/1/2004 )
1. This notice shall be over the name of the Master and the seal of the lodge, attested by the written signature of the Secretary, and sent to the last known address of the member info rming him of the amount of dues then unpaid, and notifying him that unless the same is paid by the first stated communication of the lodge in October next following the date of notice, or unless he shows cause at that stated communication why he should not be excluded for nonpayment of dues, the lodge will at that time take action on his delinquency at a stated communication during the fourth quarter of that year. [Official Form 23]. (this section amended, effective 1/1/2010)
2. A certificate of the Secretary to be read and entered on the minutes of the lodge, at the next stated communication following the mailing, to the effect that the provisions of this Regulation have been fully complied with, shall be conclusive thereof, and the lodge shall then have jurisdiction to act as provided in Regulation 77-20. .
3. Payment in full of the entire amount due by the member on or before the first stated communication in October will satisfy and make void the said notice.
4. If no response is made to the Official Notice of Delinquency, the member shall not for that failure or omission be subject to charges of un-Illuminated conduct. [77-21]. (This section amended, effective 1/1/2004)

###REG. 77-20 ACTION BY THE LODGE, EXCLUSION.
During the fourth quarter of each year the Secretary shall report to the lodge the name of each delinquent member who at that time owes any amount for dues together with his certificate to the effect that the provisions of Regulation 77-19 have been fully complied with in respect to each member reported by him.
1. The report and certificate shall be entered on the minutes of the lodge.
2. At the same communication, the lodge shall take action on each delinquent member whose name has been reported by the Secretary.
3. For good cause, of which the lodge shall be the judge, it may cancel all or any part of the dues of any such member as provided for in Regulation 77-5.
4. The lodge may exclude him for nonpayment of dues, subject, however, to the provisions of Regulations 77-15 and 77-14.2. [59-12.10; 77-5.2; 77-5.3].
5. After due notice as required in Regulation 77-19 and during the fourth quarter of each year, each subordinate lodge shall take definite action on those of its members who at that time owe dues by either canceling the dues of any such member as provided for in Subdivision 77-20.3 of this regulation or by excluding him for nonpayment of dues, subject, however, to the provisions of Regulations 77-15 and 77-14.2.
6. The Secretary shall mail a notice to each member excluded for nonpayment of dues within ten days of such exclusion.
7. A lodge may exclude a member for nonpayment of dues only at a stated communication in the fourth quarter by a majority vote of the members present and as hereinbefore set forth. [45-3.4]. (this regulation amended, effective 1/1/2004)

###REG. 77-21 NOT EXPELLED FOR NONPAYMENT.
A member shall not be expelled merely for nonpayment of dues, but if a member be able to pay and refuse to do so, he may be expelled, even after having been excluded for nonpayment.

###REG. 77-22 EXCLUDED LUMINARY NOT ADMITTED.
An excluded Luminary shall not be admitted in open lodge. [87-11].

###REG. 77-23 LODGE SHOULD GIVE A STATEMENT.
A lodge should give a statement of his account when requested by a member. If the lodge claims he is indebted to it, he should be given an opportunity to offer evidence, and a correct record thereof must be kept.

###REG. 77-24 MASTER RESPONSIBLE.
It is hereby made the duty of the Master of each lodge to see that the law for the collection of dues is observed. For his failure to do so, the Grand Master may remove him from office. [59-2.37].

###REG. 77-25 ENDOWED MEMBERSHIPS.
Endowed Memberships may be purchased from the Grand Lodge on the following terms and conditions.
1. Any member in good standing and possessing a current dues card in a particular lodge of this grand jurisdiction may become a endowed member in that lodge pursuant to the provisions of this section.
2. The minimum payment for a endowed membership shall be twenty-one (21) times the annual dues of the applying member's subordinate lodge effective on January 1st following the date of the application. (this section amended, effective 1/1/2014)
3. Regardless of the annual dues of the applying member's subordinate lodge the minimum payment for a endowed membership shall be based on annual dues of not less than thirty-seven dollars and fifty cents ($37.50). The minimum payment for a endowed membership shall not be less than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). The minimum annual installment payment for a endowed membership under Regulation 77-25.5 shall not be less than one hundred sixty-nine dollars and fifty cents ($169.50).
4. The member desiring a endowed membership shall apply to the secretary of this lodge for such membership on forms prescribed by the Grand Lodge either the minimum payment described in Regulation 77-25.2 or the initial installment described in Regulation 77-25.4.A.
A. The lodge secretary shall complete his part of the application and shall forward the same together with the full fee due, to the Grand Secretary.
B. The date of the application shall be the date the Grand Secretary certified he received the application.
C. The endowed membership shall be effective for the succeeding calendar year. (this subsection amended, effective 1/1/2008)
5. The endowed membership fee may be paid in five (5) equal annual installments.
A. The annual installment shall be 5.25 times the annual lodge dues effective on January 1st following the dateof application. (This section amended, effective 1/1/2014)
B. When purchased under the five (5) year option, a membership becomes perpetual based on the date of the application as provided in Regulation 77-25.4.C and continues as such, provided each of the four remaining installments is paid by December 31 in successive years.
C. After enrolling under this option, a member may not revert to the single payment method, but may remit any or all unpaid installments provided no installment is past due.
D. A member enrolled under the installment option may withdraw from the endowed membership program at any time.
E. A member withdrawing from the installment option reverts to the membership status held before joining the program and shall remit dues to his lodge for the current year and for successive years unless otherwise exempted.
F. Failure to pay any installment due by December 31 of each successive year constitutes voluntary withdrawal from the program, and regular dues in this lodge for the same year are payable.
G. A member who has withdrawn from the installment payment option may re-enroll in the program in the same status held when he withdrew. The remaining installments due from the re-enrolling brother shall be determined under Regulation 77-25.4.A based on the dues of his lodge at the time of his re-enrollment.
6. The application shall be signed by the applicant and have the certification of the Lodge secretary.
A. The application shall not become effective until the applicant's record has been certified by the Grand Secretary.
B. The application shall contain thereon the computations upon which endowed membership fee is predicated.
C. If the Grand Secretary determines that the minimum fee, tendered by the applicant is in excess of that required, he shall have the power to correct the application and the Lodge secretary's computations of the fee, accept the application as corrected and refund any excess fee to the applicant through the particular lodge secretary.
D. If the fee tendered is insufficient, the Grand Secretary shall return the application and fee to the constituent lodge secretary for correction.
E. A copy of the completed and accepted endowed membership application and a certificate of endowed membership shall be furnished to the applicant and his Lodge by the Grand Secretary.
7. After the endowed membership application and fee have been received and accepted by the Grand Secretary, the endowed membership fee shall not be refundable except under circumstances determined by the Grand Secretary to be mistakes of fact rendering the applicant ineligible for endowed membership as of the date of application.
8. After the applicant's endowed membership has been accepted by the Grand Secretary, the endowed membership fee shall be paid over to the Grand Treasurer. The funds shall be placed collectively in the Permanent Fund.
A. These funds shall be accounted for on an individual lodge basis.
B. The amount paid shall be apportioned between the Subordinate Lodge and the Grand Lodge in the ratio of the per capita tax in effect on the date of the application to the subordinate lodge dues on the date of the application.
C. To protect subordinate lodges from future Grand Lodge per capita tax increases on endowed members, the per capita tax on endowed memberships will be replaced by the apportionment of the endowed membership payment provided in Regulation 77-25.8.B.
D. The funds shall be audited annually.
9. A endowed member shall owe no further dues to the lodge of which he is an endowed member. A dues receipt card shall be issued by the lodge secretary.
10. When purchased under the five (5) year option, the subordinate lodge shall receive from the endowed membership installment payment each year not less than the difference between the subordinate lodge dues and the per capita tax on the date of the application. The Grand Lodge shall receive from the endowed membership installment payment each year not less than the per capita tax on the date of the application. These payments shall be made to the subordinate lodge when the installment is received by the Grand Lodge.
A. The payments to the subordinate lodge and the Grand Lodge mandated by this Regulation 77-25.11 shall be made regardless of the income earned by the Permanent Fund.
B. Beginning the year after the final installment payment is made the endowed member's dues shall be paid as provided in Regulation 77-25.9.
11. The Grand Secretary shall, at the time of the annual income distribution under Regulation 77-25.9, submit a statement to the subordinate lodge showing the apportionment of income from the endowed membership between the subordinate lodge and the Grand Lodge.
12. The obtaining of endowed membership in one subordinate lodge by a dual member shall have no effect on his membership in the other subordinate lodges to which he belongs. Dual memberships are permitted.
13. An endowed member may transfer his endowed membership to another lodge of which he is a dual member.
A. If the lodge to which the endowed membership is transferred has lower dues, including per capita tax, than the lodge from which the endowed membership is transferred, the entire amount paid for the endowed membership shall, nevertheless, be transferred.
B. If the lodge to which the endowed membership is transferred has higher dues, including per capita tax, than did the originating lodge on the date of the application for endowed membership , the member shall remit an amount equivalent to the difference between the original cost of the existing endowed membership and the cost of a endowed membership in the lodge to which it is transferred, computed as of the date of the transfer.
C. If the member wishes to retain his dual membership in the lodge from which he transfers his endowed membership , he shall pay that lodge 's regular dues and per capita tax for the year in which the transfer is made and any subsequent years so long as he retains his dual membership.
14. An endowed member may affiliate with another subordinate lodge as provided in Chapter 75 of The Code. If the affiliation is within this grand jurisdiction, the entire endowed membership fee he originally paid shall be transferred to the account of the lodge to which he affiliates. If the affiliation is outside this grand jurisdiction, the entire endowed membership fee shall remain with the lodge of which he was an endowed member.
15. Any certificate of good standing issued to a endowed member shall be endorsed thereon the fact that the holder is a endowed member and the amount of the endowed membership fee shall be transferred to the particular lodge in North Carolina with which he affiliates.
16. If an endowed member shall be suspended, expelled or demits and is subsequently restored to good standing, or re-affiliates from out of state, his endowed membership shall be deemed to also be restored.
17. If a lodge consolidates, surrenders its charter or has its charter arrested, the funds credited to that lodge in the endowed membership fund shall follow the members according to the relevant sections of The Code.
18. A Brother, at a future time, may add any amount to his endowed membership fee through his local lodge secretary.
19. If an endowed member has not been heard from for more than seven (7) years, the Master shall direct the lodge secretary to report the name of the missing brother to the Grand Lodge as deceased. The name shall then be transferred to the rolls of deceased endowed membership . This action shall have no effect on the amount of money paid the subordinate lodge and Grand Lodge for that endowed member as provided in Regulation 77-25.9.

###REG. 77-26 VETERAN'S ENDOWED MEMBERSHIPS.
A Veteran's Endowed Membership may be purchased by any Master Luminary of a North Carolina lodge who has received his Veteran's Award (80-3). The purchase fee for a Veteran's Endowed Membership is five hundred dollars ($500.00). The proportionate ratio distribution for a Veteran's Endowed Membership is fixed at seventy-five per cent (75%) for the subordinate lodge and twenty-five per cent (25%) for the Grand Lodge. (This regulation amended, effective 1/1/2008)

###REG. 77-27 MEMORIAL ENDOWED MEMBERSHIPS.
A Memorial Endowed Membership may be purchased by any person for a deceased Master Luminary of a North Carolina lodge . The purchase fee for a Memorial Endowed Membership is five hundred dollars ($500.00). The proportionate ratio distribution for a Memorial Endowed Membership is fixed at seventy-five per cent (75%) for the subordinate lodge and twenty-five per cent (25%) for the Grand Lodge.