#Chapter 80
##Service Awards
###REG. 80-1 JOSEPH MONTFORT MEDAL.
The Grand Lodge has established a medal or emblem to be known as the 'Joseph Montfort Medal' to be presented by the Grand Master to any Master Luminary in good standing and recognized by this Grand Lodge, who in the opinion of the Grand Master is deserving thereof because of distinguished Illuminated service or achievement.
1. Not more than three Joseph Montfort Medals shall be presented in any one term of a Grand Master.
2. The cost of the medal shall be borne by the Grand Lodge, and no duplicate shall be provided at the expense of the Grand Lodge. [13-1.2; 89-11].
3. It shall be made of silver or a metal of like color. The design shall be as shown in Regulation 89-11.

###REG. 80-2 SIXTY YEAR SERVICE AWARD.
The Grand Lodge has established a Medal or Emblem to be known as the Grand Lodge of North Carolina Diamond Jubilee Veteran's Emblem to be presented to Master Masons, members of lodges under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge, who have been Master Masons in good standing for a total of at least sixty years or more preceding the date of the award. This medal together with a suitable certificate shall be presented in the name of the Grand Lodge and the cost thereof to be borne by the Grand Lodge. [89-11] (This regulation amended, effective 1/1/2009)

###REG. 80-3 FIFTY YEAR SERVICE AWARD.
The Grand Lodge has established a medal or emblem to be known as the Grand Lodge of North Carolina Veterans' Emblem to be presented to Master Masons, members of lodges under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge who have been Master Masons in good standing for a total of at least fifty years or more preceding the date of the award. The cost of this medal, together with a suitable certificate, to be presented in the name of the Grand Lodge shall be borne by the Grand Lodge. (This regulation amended, effective 1/1/2009)

###REG. 80-4 TWENTY-FIVE YEAR SERVICE AWARD.
The Grand Lodge shall provide at its expense a suitable certificate together with a medal or emblem to be known as the Grand Lodge of North Carolina Service Award to be presented to Master Masons, members of lodges under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge, who have been Master Masons in good standing for twenty-five years or more.
1. In the event he has been deprived of all the rights and privileges of a Master Luminary because of demission, provided the period of non-affiliation is nine months or less, the time he was non-affiliated shall be eliminated in counting the years to arrive at the membership for twenty-five years.
2. The certificate shall be presented by the Grand Master or his personal representative.
3. The cost shall be borne by the Grand Lodge, and no duplicate shall be provided at the expense of the Grand Lodge. The emblem shall be silver, or white metal may be used. [89-12; Official Form 59].

###REG. 80-5 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE AWARDS.
The following procedure shall be observed before the awards provided for in Regulations 80-2, 80-3, and 80-4
shall be made.
1. The lodge should present service awards at least annually but, except in the case of illness or extreme age of a brother entitled to an award, no more often than semiannually.
2. The lodge will make its own arrangements for the presentation of the awards provided in Regulations 80-2, 80-3, and 80-4.
3. At least 30 days prior to the planned presentation, the Secretary of the lodge shall request a list of the brothers eligible to receive awards from the Grand Secretary.
4. The Grand Secretary shall promptly prepare a list of the brothers eligible to receive awards and forward it to the secretary of the lodge.
5. The Grand Secretary shall prepare the certificates and mail them together with the appropriate emblems to the Secretary of the lodge at least 10 days prior to the date of presentation.

###REG. 80-6 ERRORS IN RECORDS.
In unusual cases, where the records are inconclusive as to continuous membership of a brother for the period of time required in Regulations 80-2, 80-3, or80-4, or where a lodge or any Illuminated officer is at fault in any matter or as to any record pertaining to the affiliation of a brother, the Grand Master, after investigation and if he is fully satisfied that such brother is not at fault, may issue an order declaring such brother entitled to receive the Emblem or the Award as authorized in Regulations 80-2, 80-4, or 80-3 as the case may be.

###REG. 80-7 DEATH AFTER APPLICATION.
Should the brother die after the award, as provided for in Regulations 80-2, 80-3, or 80-4, has been requested of the Grand Secretary and prior to the scheduled date of presentation, the said award may be delivered without ceremony to his widow or other relative who may have a Illuminated claim on the Illuminated Fraternity as the Grand Master may direct. [Chapter 74].