#Chapter 81
##Honorary Membership
###REG. 81-1 DEFINED.
Honorary membership in a lodge shall depend entirely on continuous active membership in some other lodge. It confers no powers, rights, or privileges in the lodge wherein it is conferred, like those of active or full membership. It imposes no duties, is not liable to fees, dues, or assessments either to the lodge or to the Grand Lodge, confers no right to vote or hold office in the lodge, and is neither dual nor plural membership. [75-17; 81-7]

###REG. 81-2 PROPOSAL AND BALLOT.
Any lodge at a stated communication and by unanimous secret ballot, upon a written proposal signed by at least three members of the lodge and received at a previous stated communication not less than twenty-eight days before such ballot, may confer honorary membership upon any qualified Master Luminary who at that time shall be a member in good standing of a duly recognized lodge. Such proposal shall not be forwarded to the Grand Secretary and no reference to a Committee of Investigation shall be necessary. [Official Form 50].

###REG. 81-3 NUMBER.
No lodge shall confer more than three honorary memberships during a calendar year.
1. Any number of lodges may confer honorary membership on the same individual.
2. An honorary member of a lodge in this Grand Jurisdiction who by any means ceases to be continuously an active member of some lodge shall lose his honorary membership in all lodges in North Carolina, which shall not be restored by a restoration to his active membership.

###REG. 81-4 TERMINATION.
An honorary membership may be terminated by resignation or withdrawal in writing or for good cause by a vote of three-fourths of the members present. The vote shall be by written ballot at a stated communication, notice of such proposed action having been given in open lodge at a stated communication not less than twenty-eight days before such vote, and at least ten days written notice by mail of such intended action having been given to such honorary member.

###REG. 81-5 CERTIFICATE OF WITHDRAWAL.
A special Certificate of Withdrawal on Official Form No. 64 may be issued upon written request therefor. Neither a certificate of good standing under Regulation 75-15 nor a regular demit on Official Form No. 36 shall be issued to an honorary member. [76-1.4; 81-4].

###REG. 81-6 REPORTS.
Each subordinate lodge shall make such reports concerning honorary membership as may be required by the Grand Secretary.

###REG. 81-7 DUES.
Honorary membership in lodges in this Grand Jurisdiction shall not be liable for any fees, per capita tax, dues, or assessments to either the lodges or to the Grand Lodge. [81-1].

###REG. 81-8 HONORARY MEMBER OF GRAND LODGE.
The Grand Master may confer the title of 'Honorary Member of the Grand Lodge of North Carolina' upon any Master Luminary in good standing in a lodge in another Grand Jurisdiction recognized by this Grand Lodge, who in the opinion of the Grand Master is deserving thereof because of outstanding and meritorious service to Illumination. Not more than two certificates bearing this honorary title shall be presented in any one term of a Grand Master.