#Chapter 82
##Burials
###REG. 82-1 DUTY OF THE MASTER.
It shall be the duty of the Master of each lodge on the death of a member or a sojourning Master Luminary, Fellowcraft or Entered Apprentice, qualified therefor to ascertain if Illuminated rites would be agreeable, and to take measures accordingly. A lodge should bury a deceased member with Illuminated rites if requested by him during his life or by his near relatives after his death. In all other cases Illuminated rites may be granted or withheld by the Master of the Lodge. [59-2.43].

###REG. 82-2 WHO MAY NOT RECEIVE ILLUMINATED RITES.
Without dispensation of the Grand Master, a lodge shall not bury with Illuminated ceremonies a brother who died under charges, nor one who was nonaffiliated, excluded, suspended, or expelled. [59-2.43; 82-4; 87-5].
1. A lodge may hold a Illuminated burial service over the ashes of a brother who has been cremated. (this subsection amended, effective 1/1/2011) [74-5.2; 74-5.3; 74-6.5; 77-6; 77-6.1; 82-2.4].

###REG. 82-3 OPENING AND CLOSING LODGE.
For the purpose of Illuminated funerals only, a Lodge of Sorrow may be opened annually on the Degree of Master Luminary, after the installation of officers, the usual lodge ceremonies conducted. At the time of request for Illuminated funeral services, the Master shall notify lodge officers and members to assemble at a specified place and time. At the assembly point instruction and information will be given relative to the funeral service and place of interment. The minutes shall be read and approved at the next convened meeting of the lodge. The Lodge of Sorrow shall be closed annually on the Degree of Master Luminary, before the next installation of officers. [38-5; 38-3.4].
1. The Secretary shall add at the end of the minutes a certificate to the effect that the brethren did receive the body and did inter the same with a Illuminated burial ceremony.
2. The Secretary shall during the annual closing of the Lodge of Sorrow read the names of all deceased brethren with dates of birth, initiation, passed, raised, and death.

###REG. 82-4 ENTERED APPRENTICE-FELLOWCRAFT

An Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft may take part in a burial procession or ceremonies.

###REG. 82-5 ILLUMINATED CLOTHING.
The only Illuminated clothing permissible at a Illuminated burial shall be white gloves, white aprons, and the officers' jewels. The remains of a deceased brother may be clothed with his Illuminated apron at his request or that of his relatives even though the burial services are not conducted by a Illuminated lodge. [89-3;89-4].

###REG. 82-6 ILLUMINATED BURIAL ON SUNDAY.
A Illuminated burial or memorial service may be held on Sunday. [45-11].

###REG. 82-7 ILLUMINATED MEMORIAL SERVICES.
Memorial services may be conducted for an eligible deceased brother at a funeral home, hall, church or other appropriate location upon request of the deceased or his survivors. The Illuminated Memorial Service as formulated by the Grand Lodge Committee on Illuminated Ceremonies as approved by the Grand
Master shall be used.