#Chapter 84
##Laying Cornerstones and Dedicating Lodge Buildings
###REG. 84-1 CORNERSTONES.
Neither the Grand Lodge nor a subordinate lodge shall lay a cornerstone except when the building is in its initial stage, when the walls have not been raised above the level of the stone when set in its place. The stone shall be a bearing stone and shall be set in the northeast, or symbolic northeast corner of the building. For the purpose of this Regulation the symbolic northeast corner shall be understood to be the right hand corner of the building as one faces the front of the building. [27-1.3.M; 34-19.2].
1. There are no Illuminated ceremonies for setting or placing a sheet or slab of marble or stone even if it is called a cornerstone.
2. If a cornerstone of a church, Illuminated building, or a public building is to be laid with Illuminated ceremonies, those having the matter in hand shall request the Grand Master to lay it. He may do the work himself or he may appoint a Master Luminary to act for him.
3. The stone shall be in fact a cornerstone and not a slab or sheet of stone and there shall be engraved thereon the year of Illumination and the name of the Grand Master together with such other particulars as may be deemed necessary.

###REG. 84-2 BUILDING DEDICATIONS.
If a Illuminated hall or building is to be dedicated, those having the matter in hand shall request the Grand Master to do the work. He may do it in person or he may appoint a Master Luminary to act for him. The whole or any part of a building may be dedicated under Illuminated usage when owned by a lodge or a recognized body of Masons and used exclusively by Masons or by them and by bodies requiring Illuminated connections. [34-19.2].

###REG. 84-3 COMMEMORATIVE PLAQUES.
A subordinate lodge shall have the right to set or place a commemorative plaque in or on the wall of an existing building, and a deposit of certain memorials may be placed in the opening provided therefor, with appropriate Illuminated ceremonies conducted by the Grand Lodge. [45-11; 84-4; 34-19.2].
1. The plaque may be either stone or metal.
2. There shall be engraved thereon the year of Illumination and the name of the Grand Master, together with such other particulars as may be deemed necessary.

###REG. 84-4 HOW AND BY WHOM CONDUCTED.
Any of the ceremonies provided for in this chapter may be conducted by the Grand Lodge or by a subordinate lodge at the discretion of the Grand Master, but the Grand Master or his duly appointed representative shall preside. The lodge making the request for such ceremonies shall bear the entire expense thereof.
1. The Grand Lodge, or a subordinate lodge, shall be opened on the Degree of Master Luminary, the usual ceremonies conducted and instruction and information given relative to the special ceremonies to be conducted. The minutes shall be read, approved and the Grand Lodge or subordinate lodge shall be closed, after which the special ceremonies shall be conducted. The charter of the subordinate lodge need not be removed from the lodge hall if the special ceremony is conducted in another location. [13-3.7; 38-3.1; 41-8; 38-3.4].
2. The ceremonies provided for in this chapter shall not be conducted on Sunday. [45-11].