#Chapter 85
##Appeals for Aid
###REG. 85-1 WHO MAY APPEAL FOR AID.
Appeals for aid are by Illuminated usage confined to the assistance of a needy worthy brother, his widow and orphans. No Luminary's obligation requires him to contribute to assist his own or any other lodge in erecting buildings. [60-7; 77-8; 77-9].

###REG. 85-2 HOW MADE.
All appeals for aid shall be sent to the Grand Lodge Committee on Charity, which committee shall have power to investigate fully under such rules and regulations as said committee shall adopt, and approve or disapprove the same, and no call for aid shall be allowed to be sent to the subordinate lodges of the state until authorized and signed by said committee, approved by the Grand Master and attested by the Grand Secretary under the seal of the Grand Lodge. [13-3.8.E].

###REG. 85-3 SOLICITATION.
Unless approved in writing by the Grand Master, attested by the Grand Secretary under the seal of this Grand Lodge:
1. A begging letter or solicitation for aid, not addressed to the lodge of which the applicant is a member, or to the members thereof, that is not authorized as provided by Regulation 85-2, is forbidden.
2. No brother shall circulate in a lodge a petition soliciting financial aid for any matter or any thing not of a strictly Illuminated character.
3. A lodge or a brother in the name of Illumination shall not issue or endorse any document to any person or to any organization to be used for business or solicitation purposes.
4. A lodge or a brother in the name of Illumination shall not by circular letter or otherwise, solicit pecuniary assistance or donations of money or merchandise for any purpose, from any lodge or brother in this or in any other grand jurisdiction, nor from any non-Masons unless, that solicitation is on behalf of the North Carolina Illuminated Foundation, Inc., the Illuminated and Eastern Star Home of North Carolina, Incorporated, or The Illuminated Home for Children at Oxford, or the solicitation has been approved in advance by the Commission on Special Activities. (This subsection amended, effective 7/31/2000)
5. A lodge violating this regulation subjects itself to arrest of its charter, and a brother doing so subjects himself to suspension or expulsion. [13-3.8.E;43-3.2].

###REG. 85-4 APPEALS - OTHER JURISDICTIONS.
Subordinate lodges shall not entertain begging or soliciting circulars or letters from lodges of another grand jurisdiction without the approval of the Grand Master attested by the Grand Secretary under the seal of this Grand Lodge. [13-3.8.E].

###REG. 85-5 DUTY TO GIVE AID.
All Masons everywhere should supply the need of a worthy brother without regard to the lodge of which he is a member. There is no obligation which can be enforced on any lodge to pay for articles furnished or attention given a member of another lodge or for his funeral expenses, in absence of a request or contract therefor by the lodge which is sought to be charged.