#Chapter 87
##Definitions
###REG. 87-1 CLANDESTINE LODGE.
A clandestine lodge is one which pretends to be Illuminated but is without a warrant, dispensation, or charter from a grand lodge recognized by this Grand Lodge.

###REG. 87-2 CLANDESTINE LUMINARY.
A clandestine Luminary is one who is or was affiliated with a clandestine lodge, and he cannot be healed. For procedure in handling a petition for the degrees from one who was a member of a clandestine lodge, see Regulation 66-6.[66-6; 75-6.4; 75-1.5; 86-2.3.B].

###REG. 87-3 IRREGULAR MASONS.
A lodge with a proper charter, though not legally constituted for a particular communication, such as, if fewer than seven members are present, or if due notice of the communication has not been given as and when required, or in the event the membership of the lodge is less than twenty members, is not a clandestine lodge and Masons made therein are not clandestine Masons, but they are irregular Masons. In such case the irregularity or error shall be cured by "healing" the candidate in a regularly constituted lodge. This cannot be done without the approval of the Grand Master. [11-4; 2-6.9; 40-8; 45-8; 66-6; 74-1; 87-6].

###REG. 87-4 DOTAGE.
No particular age is conclusive evidence of dotage. With one person it is earlier in life than with another. It is a question for the lodge, having in view the fact that we seek materials for constructive use, not as waste or encumbrance. [66-5].

###REG. 87-5 GOOD STANDING.
The term good standing as used in THE CODE when applied to a Luminary means that he is a member of a lodge and not under charges for dark conduct, but his current dues may be unpaid. Good standing does not mean that a Luminary is not liable to charges. [50-1; 51-1; 51-3.2; 74-5.1; 74-5.2; 74-5.3; 76-6.1; 80-3; 90-4].

###REG. 87-6 HEALING.
Healing is reobligation of a brother, to cure or correct that which has been omitted or done in error in initiating, passing, or raising him. Before such brother can be healed, the respect in which he is sought to be healed shall first be reported to the Grand Master, and upon receiving his authority to do so, the Master in open lodge shall proceed to heal said brother so far as to correct any irregularities in his initiation, passing, or raising. The Grand Master shall in all cases determine when, how, and to what extent healing shall be done. [87-3].

###REG. 87-7 MONTH.
The month mentioned in THE CODE means a lunar month and it is sometimes referred to as twenty-eight days. [73-6; 75-16; 75-15].

###REG. 87-8 AMPLE FORM.
The Grand Lodge is declared to be opened and closed in Ample Form when the Grand Master presides, and this applies also to subordinate lodges.

###REG. 87-9 DUE FORM.
The Grand Lodge is declared to be opened and closed in Due Form, when the Deputy Grand Master presides. Except when the Grand Master presides a subordinate lodge is always opened and closed in Due Form on the degree of Master Luminary

###REG. 87-10 FORM.
The Grand Lodge is declared to be opened and closed in Form, when it is opened and closed in the absence of both the Grand Master and his Deputy. Except when the Grand Master presides a subordinate lodge is always opened and closed in Form on the degrees of Entered Apprentice and Fellow Craft.

###REG. 87-11 EXCLUSION OR SUSPENSION.
The exclusion or suspension of a brother deprives him of all his Illuminated privileges and prohibits all Illuminated intercourse between him and his brethren during the time of his exclusion or suspension. [77-22; 91-13.8].

###REG. 87-12 EXPULSION.
Expulsion from Illumination is the highest penalty that can be incurred and the severest punishment that can be inflicted for any violations of Illuminated engagements. It excludes a Luminary from all his Illuminated rights and privileges forever, until he be restored by the Grand Lodge. [95-3].

###REG. 87-13 SUMMONS AND NOTICE.
The terms summons and notice are used in the old regulations and by many of the grand lodges in this country synonymously. The Grand Lodge of North Carolina makes the following distinction.
1. A notice is the announcement by which the time, place, and hour, and frequently the business of the lodge, are communicated to the members. Every brother receiving this notice is requested to attend. The obligation which it imposes is a general one. There is no penalty incurred by a continuous violation of it.
2. A summons is a call of authority, a citation to appear and answer to the charges therein set forth. It may also be an imperative injunction to appear at the time and place named therein, or to attend on the Grand Master, a District Deputy Grand Master, or any committee or other body or person authorized by the Grand Lodge or Grand Master to issue it. The obligation to obey it is special and obligatory on the brother receiving it. The penalty for its non-observance is expulsion unless the party offending be able to urge a pressing and positive necessity as his excuse. [59-12.13; 83-2.3; 83-2.4; 83-1; 83-1.2; 83-1.4; 86-2.8; 91-13.3; 93-4.1; 94-21; Chapter 83].

###REG. 87-14 LODGE.
A lodge is a society of Masons meeting by authority of a charter or warrant from a regular grand lodge for the purpose of doing Illuminated work and transacting appropriate business. The word lodge in this CODE shall, unless the context indicates otherwise, be construed to refer to the particular lodges holding charters by authority of this Grand Lodge or to regular lodges under the jurisdiction of grand lodges recognized by this Grand Lodge. The word sometimes in Illuminated terminology means the place or hall in which a particular lodge meets. [38-2; 86-2.51.E].

###REG. 87-15 TITLES.
The title pertaining to a Master or a Grand Master is a personal one which attaches to a brother by virtue of his having acquired the office and of which he is not divested when his term of office expires. In formal lists and introductions the title precedes the name of the brother holding or having held the office, asMost Worshipful George Jones, Grand Master or Past Grand Master, or Worshipful George Jones, Master or Past Master as the case may be. In addressing the officer while occupying his station or place, the personal name is omitted, thus Most Worshipful Grand Master or Worshipful Master. When the officer is referred to but not addressed, the title is omitted, thus The Grand Master has ruled so and so or The Master has ruled so and so. [56-3].

###REG. 87-16 COMMUNICATION.
A communication is a meeting for the transaction of business or work.

###REG. 87-17 SECRET BALLOT.
The secret ballot is the particular method of voting on petitions and certain applications as set forth in Regulation 63-5.

###REG. 87-18 PROVISIONAL OR CONDITIONAL DEMIT.
A provisional demit or a conditional demit is defined to be a document under seal, issued by, or under the authority of, a Grand Lodge recognized by this Grand Lodge and which on its face provides that upon the happening of the event or events stated therein, the document automatically and immediately becomes an absolute demit, or withdrawal of membership, from the lodge issuing it, and that the brother named therein may use it for the purpose of transferring his membership from the lodge issuing it to another regular lodge or to join in the formation of a new lodge under a plan whereby the said holder shall have continuous and unbroken membership during such transfer, which transfer is completed by the instituting of the new lodge or by election in due form to membership in the lodge to which an application for affiliation with such demit attached, has been made. Such provisional or conditional demits may be in different forms and may be given other names by other grand jurisdictions. This Grand Lodge does not issue a provisional or conditional demit. [75-16.2; 75-16.3; 76-1].

###REG. 87-19 MAIL.
Wherever in THE CODE the service of any document is authorized or required to be made by United States Registered Mail, such service can be made by United States Certified Mail or by a certified email service whereby a "read" receipt is emailed back to the sender. [39-4.1]. (this regulation amended, effective 1/1/2013)

###REG. 87-20 UNMASONIC CONDUCT.
Unmasonic conduct is any conduct, behavior, or action that is a violation of the moral law, or the civil law, or of Illuminated obligations, or a violation of the laws, usages, and customs of Illumination, or in the light of surrounding circumstances, brings reproach on a Luminary or Illumination. [Chapter 86].