#Chapter 89
##Aprons, Jewels, and Seals
###REG. 89-1 EMBLEM OF A MASTER LUMINARY.
The emblem of a Master Luminary is the Square, the Compasses, and the letter G arranged as illustrated in Regulation 89-1.3 and without any additional decorations.
1. It shall be made of a gold colored metal.
2. The size may be such as desired by the brother.
3. The design of the emblem of a Master Luminary shall be as follows: [89-10.3].
(Pictures are found in Appendix B)

###REG. 89-2 ILLUMINATED APRON.
The proper Illuminated apron to be used in this Grand Jurisdiction shall be plain white without decorations of any kind, not larger than 15 x 17 inches made of lambskin, leather, or cloth. (This section amended, effective 1/1/ 2009)
1. If the apron is lined the lining shall be white. [89-3; 89-4; 89-6.2].
2. The apron to be presented to a candidate may be inscribed under the flap with his name, the dates he received the degrees, and the signatures of the Master and the Secretary.

###REG. 89-3 HOW WORN.
The Illuminated apron may be worn beneath the coat but never in such a way as not to be readily visible. The Master in his discretion may determine how it shall be worn. [82-10; 89-2].

###REG. 89-4 FUNERALS.
The proper Illuminated clothing for a funeral procession is a white apron and white gloves and the officers' jewels. For other occasions it may be a plain white lambskin or leather apron for members and a white apron with blue edging and proper Illuminated emblems for officers. [53-2.8; 82-10; 89-10; 89-2].

###REG. 89-5 GRAND MASTER.
The Grand Lodge shall present to each:
1.?Grand Master at his installation, a white apron suitably inscribed.
2.?Retiring Grand Master after installation of his successor, a Past Grand Master's jewel.
3.?The jewel of a Past Grand Master shall be made of gold. [16-1.34].
4.?The designs of the apron and jewel and emblem of a Past Grand Master shall be as follows: [89-5.3; 89-9.3].
(Pictures are found in Appendix B)

###REG. 89-6 GRAND LODGE.
In the Grand Lodge an officer wears his official apron.
1.?Other members of the Grand Lodge wear plain white aprons.
2.?The aprons for use of members in the Grand Lodge or in lodges may be made of white paper, cloth, lambskin, or leather.

###REG. 89-7 DISTRICT DEPUTY GRAND MASTER.
The jewel of a District Deputy Grand Master shall be made of gold or a metal of like color, the design is illustrated in Regulation 89-7. The apron of a District Deputy Grand Master shall be the same as of a Past Master except the Past Master's emblem on the body of the apron of a District Deputy Grand Master shall be three-fourths enclosed in a wreath; and instead of the All Seeing Eye on the flap, there shall be the number designating his district. All trimming, lining, or embroidery shall be in royal blue. The design of the apron and jewel and emblem of a District Deputy Grand Master shall be as follows:
(Pictures are found in Appendix B)

###REG. 89-8 DISTRICT DEPUTY GRAND LECTURER.
The jewel of a District Deputy Grand Lecturer shall be made of gold or a metal of like color, the design as illustrated in Regulation 89-8. The apron of a District Deputy Grand Lecturer shall be made of white lambskin, leather or cloth with all the cords, lining, borders and tabs of royal blue. A scroll enclosed in a blue field and encircled by a white border on the body, and there shall be the number designating the district embroidered on the flap. The design of the apron and jewel and emblem of a District Deputy Grand Lecturer shall be as follows:
(Pictures are found in Appendix B)

###REG. 89-9 OFFICERS OF THE GRAND LODGE.
The jewels of the officers of the Grand Lodge shall be made of gold or a metal of like color. The designs are illustrated in Regulation 89-9.8. [16-1.34; 18-5].
1. The jewel of an officer of the Grand Lodge or of a lodge, or of the District Deputy Grand Master, or of the District Deputy Grand Lecturer may be worn suspended from the collar or ribbon of royal blue, or it may be pinned to the left lapel of the coat.
2. The jewel of the Grand Master shall be worn suspended from a chain collar of gold which is illustrated in Regulation 89-9.8.
3. The aprons of the officers of the Grand Lodge and Past Grand Masters may be made of lambskin, leather, or cloth, with belt or tie cords, lining, borders, and tabs of purple for the Grand Master and Past Grand Masters, and royal blue for all other officers.
4. The aprons' tabs, and flaps, may be trimmed with gold bullion.
5. The emblem of the officer or Past Grand Master may be embroidered on the body of the apron with gold bullion.
6. The apron of the Grand Master or a Past Grand Master may be decorated by a wreath embroidered in the borders in gold bullion. See Regulations 89-9.8 and89-5.4 for designs of these aprons.
7. Metal collars for all persons designated in this regulation shall have a color background to match the corresponding apron and shall be of a design approved by the Board of General Purposes.
8. The designs of the aprons and jewels and emblems of the several officers of the Grand Lodge are as follows: [89-9; 89-9.1; 89-9.3].
(Pictures are found in Appendix B)

###REG. 89-10 OFFICERS OF A LODGE.
The jewels of the officers of a lodge shall be made of silver or a metal of like color. [53-2.8; 89-6; 89-4].
1. The aprons of the officers of lodges and of Past Masters may be made of lambskin, leather, or cloth, with plain borders, or tabs, with the emblem of the officer or Past Master embroidered on the body and the All Seeing Eye embroidered on the outside of the flap but no other decoration. All embroidery, trimming, lining, and tie cords may be in royal blue. [53-2.8].
2. Designs of the jewels and emblems of the officers of a lodge shall be as follows: [89-10]
(Pictures are found in Appendix B)
3. The jewel of a Past Master shall be made of gold or a metal of like color designed as illustrated in Regulation 89-10.3, but the size may be determined by the brother. The design of the jewel and emblem of a Past Master shall be as follows:
(Pictures are found in Appendix B)

###REG. 89-11 VETERAN'S EMBLEMS.
The designs of the Grand Lodge of North Carolina Veteran's Emblem, the Grand Lodge of North Carolina Diamond Jubilee Veteran's Emblem and of the Joseph Montfort Medal shall be as follows: [80-1; 80-3; 80-2].
(Pictures are found in Appendix B)

###REG. 89-12 SERVICE AWARD.
The design of the Grand Lodge of North Carolina Service Award shall be as follows:
(Pictures are found in Appendix B)

###REG. 89-13 SEAL OF THE GRAND LODGE.
The following is hereby adopted as the seal of the Grand Lodge: [16-1.25; 16-1.26].
(Pictures are found in Appendix B)

###REG. 89-14 SEAL OF THE GRAND MASTER.
The following is hereby adopted as the seal of the Grand Master: [13-2.21].
(Pictures are found in Appendix B)

###REG. 89-15 SEAL OF THE COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS.
The following is hereby adopted as the seal of the Committee on By-Laws: [34-15.3].
(Pictures are found in Appendix B)

###REG. 89-16 SEAL OF THE JUDGE ADVOCATE.
The following is hereby adopted as the seal of the Judge Advocate:
(Pictures are found in Appendix B)