#Chapter 12
##Election and Installation of Grand Officers
###REG. 12-1 MANNER OF ELECTION.
At each annual communication of the Grand Lodge there shall be elected without nomination a Grand Master, a Deputy Grand Master, a Senior Grand Warden, a Junior Grand Warden, a Grand Treasurer, and a Grand Secretary by written ballot. [11-5.2; 11-5.3; Chapter 19].
###REG. 12-2 NO ELECTION BY ACCLAMATION.
The Grand Master and the Deputy Grand Master must each receive two-thirds of the votes cast, the remaining elective officers must receive a majority of the votes cast, the Grand Lodge shall not elect by acclamation. [Chapter 19].
###REG. 12-3 TIME OF ELECTION.
Election of Grand Lodge officers shall commence on the second day of each annual communication. [Chapter 19].(This regulation amended, effective January 1, 2007)
###REG. 12-4 APPOINTED OFFICERS.
All appointive grand officers shall be appointed by the Grand Master-elect. [11-5.2; 11-5.3; 13-2.6].
###REG. 12-5 ASSISTANTS.
The Grand Secretary may appoint an Assistant to the Grand Secretary. The Grand Treasurer may appoint an Assistant to the Grand Treasurer. Any such appointment being subject to the approval of the Grand Master, but neither of such Assistants shall become an officer or a member of the Grand Lodge by virtue of such appointment, therefore he shall not be installed. [15-1.13; 16-1.38].
###REG. 12-6 INSTALLATION ESSENTIAL.
The grand officers shall be installed before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, except the Grand Chaplain, the Grand Historian, the Grand Lecturer, the Grand Orator, the Judge Advocate, and acting or pro tempore officers. Installation is essential and cannot be dispensed with. [11-1; 11-1.2; 11-10.4; 11-10.5; 57-8].
###REG. 12-7 TIME OF INSTALLATION.
The Grand Master-elect and all grand officers required to be installed shall be installed by the Grand Master, a Past Grand Master, or a Past Master at an emergent communication called for that purpose the second Saturday in November or the earliest date possible thereafter either in the Grand Lodge or in a subordinate lodge within the state. [Official Forms 47, 57]. (This regulation amended, effective 1/1/2008)
###REG. 12-8 OATH.
Each officer of the Grand Lodge, elective and appointive, required to be installed, shall make the following declaration at the time he is installed:
"I promise upon the honor of a Master Luminary that I will, to the best of my ability, conform to and abide by the Ancient Landmarks, Usages, and Regulations of Luminaryry, and the Constitution and laws of this Grand Lodge; and that I will faithfully perform the duties of the office to which I have been selected."
###REG. 12-9 OFFICERS NOT INSTALLED BY PROXY.
No elective officer of the Grand Lodge shall be installed by proxy. [11-1.1].