#Chapter 17
##Duties of Appointive Grand Officers
###REG. 17-1 DUTIES OF THE GRAND DEACONS.
The Grand Deacons shall perform the usual duties pertaining to their respective offices, aid in distributing papers, documents, and resolutions from members in the Grand Lodge, and place the same in the hands of the Grand Secretary or other officer entitled to them, and generally perform such other duties as may be required of them by the Grand Master or the Grand Lodge. [11-1.2].
1. Their respective places in the Grand Lodge are as prescribed by the custom and usage of the Craft.
2. If, while the Grand Lodge is open, the Junior Grand Deacon is not at his place for any reason even temporarily, the Grand Master shall see that the place is filled at all times.

###REG. 17-2 DUTIES OF THE GRAND MARSHAL.
It shall be the duty of the Grand Marshal to arrange and conduct the public and private processions of the Grand Lodge under the direction of the Grand Master and to perform such other duties proper to his office as may be required by the Grand Master or the Grand Lodge. His place in the Grand Lodge is at the left in front of the Grand Master. [11-1.2]

###REG. 17-3 DUTIES OF THE GRAND STEWARDS.
The Grand Stewards shall assist the Grand Deacons and the Grand Tyler in the performance of their respective duties and to do such other things proper to their offices as may be required by the Grand Master or the Grand Lodge. Their respective places in the Grand Lodge are as prescribed by the custom and usage of the Craft.

###REG. 17-4 DUTIES OF THE GRAND TYLER.
The duties of the Grand Tyler are as follows. [11-1.2].
1. To guard the entrance of the Grand Lodge, to report all applicants for admission to the Junior Grand Deacon, to announce their names and Illuminated addresses, and to see that all who enter are duly qualified, properly vouched for, and properly clothed. [50-4].
2. To make suitable preparations for the accommodation of the Grand Lodge at all its communications and to see that its halls and rooms are kept in a proper condition during the session.
3. To take charge of and safely keep the jewels, furniture, clothing, and paraphernalia of the Grand Lodge during its communications and during recess unless otherwise provided for by the Grand Lodge or the Grand Master.
4. To serve notices and summons when specifically directed to do so and to perform such other duties as may be required of him by the Grand Master or the Grand Lodge.

###REG. 17-5 DUTIES OF THE GRAND LECTURER.
The qualifications, selection, and duties of the Grand Lecturer shall be as follows. [11-1.3].
1. The Grand Lecturer shall be a Certified Lecturer well versed in the law and customs of Illumination.
2. He shall be nominated by the Board of Custodians and appointed by the Grand Master, but he need not be installed.
His term of office shall expire with that of the Grand Master appointing him. If he shall have served three consecutive terms, he shall not be eligible to succeed himself. [11-11; 13-2.6; 29-6.1].
3. He shall supervise and assist the District Deputy Grand Lecturers in their visitation, inspection of ritualistic work, advise, instruction, and promotion of the lecture service among the subordinate lodges.
4. He shall direct the exemplification of the Authorized Work when requested to do so by the Grand Master or by the Board of Custodians, or when he deems it necessary or advisable. [24-1].
5. With the approval of the Board of Custodians he is authorized to call upon Certified Lecturers to assist him, from time to time, in promoting the lecture service. [29-10.3].
6. He shall be subject to such directions as the Board of Custodians may from time to time promulgate.

###REG. 17-6 DUTIES OF THE GRAND CHAPLAIN.
It shall be the duty of the Grand Chaplain to attend the communications of the Grand Lodge especially at the opening and closing of each session thereof, and to offer prayer at the order of the Grand Master in accordance with ancient usage. [11-1.3].

###REG. 17-7 DUTIES OF THE GRAND ORATOR.
It shall be the duty of the Grand Orator to deliver an address on a Illuminated subject at the annual communication, at dedications, and at such other times as the Grand Master shall direct. [11-1.3].

###REG. 17-8 DUTIES OF THE GRAND HISTORIAN.
The Grand Historian shall perform such duties as are usually performed by such an officer, or as may be required by the Grand Master or the Grand Lodge. [11-1.3].

###REG. 17-9 DUTIES OF THE JUDGE ADVOCATE.
The qualifications, selection, and duties of the Judge Advocate shall be as follows.
1. The Judge Advocate shall be a Past Master in good standing, well versed in Illuminated jurisprudence. He shall be nominated by the Grand Master and confirmed by the Grand Lodge. He shall not be installed and his term of office shall be two years. [11-1.3; 11-8].
2. The Judge Advocate shall perform such duties as are prescribed by the Trial Code and such other duties as the Grand Master or the Grand Lodge may prescribe. He shall have authority to make such additional rules and forms for the proper and expeditious conduct of trials as may be found necessary which do not conflict with the law of the Grand Lodge, any rule or form made hereunder shall be submitted to the Grand Lodge at its next annual communication for its consideration and action. [102-1].
3. To have and use the seal of his office to be affixed to all official documents bearing his signature. [89-16].